'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: drmaa_attributes.3,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/08/07 13:06:27 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.20 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de M    \" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH drmaa_attributes 3 "$Date: 2008/08/07 13:06:27 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx DRMAA"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
drmaa_get_attribute_names, drmaa_get_vector_attribute_names, drmaa_get_next_attr_name, 
drmaa_get_num_attr_names, drmaa_release_attr_names \- DRMAA job template attributes
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include """drmaa.h"""
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_attribute_names(\fB
.RS
\fBdrmaa_attr_names_t **values,\fB
\fBchar *error_diagnosis,\fB
\fBsize_t error_diag_len\fB
.RE
.fi
);\fB
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_vector_attribute_names(\fB
.RS
\fBdrmaa_attr_names_t **values,\fB
\fBchar *error_diagnosis,\fB
\fBsize_t error_diag_len\fB
.RE
.fi
);\fB
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_next_attr_name(\fB
.RS
\fBdrmaa_attr_names_t* values,\fB
\fBchar *value,\fB
\fBint value_len\fB
.RE
.fi
);\fB
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_next_attr_value(\fB
.RS
\fBdrmaa_attr_values_t* values,\fB
\fBchar *value,\fB
\fBint value_len\fB
.RE
.fi
);\fB
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_num_attr_names(\fB
.RS
\fBdrmaa_attr_names_t* values,\fB
\fBint *size\fB
.RE
.fi
);\fB
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBvoid drmaa_release_attr_names(\fB
.RS
\fBdrmaa_attr_names_t* values\fB
.RE
.fi
);\fB
.PP
.nf
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The drmaa_get_attribute_names() function returns into \fIvalues\fP a DRMAA names
string vector containing the set of supported non-vector DRMAA job template 
attribute names. The set includes supported DRMAA reserved attribute names 
and xxQS_NAMExx native attribute names. The names in the names string 
vector can be extracted using 
.M drmaa_get_next_attr_name 3 . 
The number of names in the names string vector can be determined using
.M drmaa_get_num_attr_names 3 .
Note that this function is only available in the 1.0
implementation.
The caller is responsible for releasing the names string 
vector returned into \fIvalues\fP using 
.M drmaa_release_attr_names 3 .
Use 
.M drmaa_set_attribute 3 
and 
.M drmaa_get_attribute 3
for setting and inspecting non-vector attributes.
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_get_vector_attribute_names()"
The drmaa_get_vector_attribute_names() function returns into \fIvalues\fP a DRMAA names
string vector containing the set of supported vector DRMAA job template 
attribute names. The set includes supported DRMAA reserved attribute names 
and xxQS_NAMExx native attribute names. The names in the names string 
vector can be extracted using 
.M drmaa_get_next_attr_name 3 . 
The caller is responsible for releasing the names string 
vector returned into \fIvalues\fP using 
.M drmaa_release_attr_names 3 .
Use 
.M drmaa_set_vector_attribute 3 
and 
.M drmaa_get_vector_attribute 3
for setting and inspecting vector attributes.
.PP
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_get_next_attr_name()"
Each time drmaa_get_next_attr_name() is called it returns into the buffer,
\fIvalue\fP, up to \fIvalue_len\fP 
bytes of the next entry stored in the DRMAA names string vector, \fIvalues\fP.
Once the names list has been exhausted, DRMAA_ERRNO_NO_MORE_ELEMENTS is returned. 
.PP
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_get_num_attr_names()"
The drmaa_get_num_attr_names() returns into \fIsize\fP the number of entries
in the DRMAA names string vector.  This function is only available in the 1.0
implementation.
.PP
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_release_attr_names()"
The drmaa_release_attr_names() function releases all resources associated with the DRMAA names
string vector, \fIvalues\fP.
.PP
.\"
.SS "Attribute Priorities"
DRMAA job template attributes can be set from six different sources.  In order
of precedence, from lowest to highest, these are: options
set by DRMAA automatically by default, options set in the
.M sge_request 5
file(s), options set in the script file, options set by the drmaa_job_category
attribute, options set by the drmaa_native_specification attribute, and options
set through other DRMAA attributes.
.PP
By default DRMAA sets four options for all jobs.  These are "-p 0", "-b yes",
"-shell no", and "-w e".  This means that by default, all jobs will have
priority 0, all jobs will be treated as binary, i.e. no scripts args will be
parsed, all jobs will be executed without a wrapper shell, and jobs which are
unschedulable will cause a submit error.
.PP
The
.M sge_request 5
file, found in the $xxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT/$xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL/common
directory, may contain options to be applied to all jobs.  The .sge_request file
found in the user's home directory or the current working directory may also
contain options to be applied to certain jobs.  See
.M sge_request 5
for more information.
.PP
If the
.M sge_request 5
file contains "-b no" or if the drmaa_native_specification attribute is set
and contains "-b no", the script file will be parsed for in-line arguments.
Otherwise, no scripts args will be interpreted.  See
.M qsub 1
for more information.  
.PP
If the drmaa_job_category attribute is set, and the category it points to
exists in one of the
.M qtask 5
files, the options associated with that category will be applied to the job
template.  See
.M qtask 5
and the drmaa_job_category attribute below for more information.
.PP
If the drmaa_native_specification attribute is set, all options contained
therein will be applied to the job template.  See the
drmaa_native_specification below for more information.
.PP
Other DRMAA attributes will override any previous settings.  For example, if
the sge_request file contains "-j y", but the drmaa_join_files attribute is
set to "n", the ultimate result is that the input and output files will remain
separate.
.PP
For various reasons, some options are silently ignored by DRMAA.  Setting any
of these options will have no effect.  The ignored options are: -cwd, -help, -sync,
-t, -verify, -w w, and -w v.  The -cwd option can be re-enabled by setting the
environment variable, SGE_DRMAA_ALLOW_CWD.  However, the -cwd option is not
thread safe and should not be used in a multi-threaded context.
.PP
.\"
.SS Attribute Correlations
The following DRMAA attributes correspond to the following
.M qsub 1
options:
.PP
.RS
.nf
DRMAA Attribute                  qsub Option
-------------------------------------------------------
drmaa_remote_command             script file
drmaa_v_argv                     script file args
drmaa_js_state = "drmaa_hold"    -h
drmaa_v_env                      -v
drmaa_wd = $PWD                  -cwd
drmaa_job_category               (qtsch qtask)*
drmaa_native_specification       ALL*
drmaa_v_email                    -M
drmaa_block_email = "1"          -m n
drmaa_start_time                 -a
drmaa_job_name                   -N
drmaa_input_path                 -i
drmaa_output_path                -o
drmaa_error_path                 -e
drmaa_join_files                 -j
drmaa_transfer_files             (prolog and epilog)*
.fi
.PP
* See the individual attribute description below
.RE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "DRMAA JOB TEMPLATE ATTRIBUTES"
.SS "drmaa_remote_command - ""<remote_command>"""
Specifies the remote command to execute. The \fIremote_command\fP must be the path of an 
executable that is available at the job's execution host.  If the path is relative,
it is assumed to be relative to the working directory, usually set through the
drmaa_wd attribute.  If working directory is not set, the path is assumed to be
relative to the user's home directory.
.PP
The file pointed to by remote_command may either be an executable binary or an
executable script.  If a script, it must include the path to the shell
in a #! line at the beginning of the script.  By default, the remote command
will be executed directly, as by
.M exec 2 .
To have the remote command executed in a shell, such as to preserve environment
settings, use the drmaa_native_specification attribute to include the "-shell yes"
option.  Jobs which are executed by a wrapper shell fail differently from jobs
which are executed directly.  When a job which contains a user error, such as an
invalid path to the executable, is executed by a wrapper shell, the job will
execute successfully, but exit with a return code of 1.  When a job which
contains such an error is executed directly, it will enter the DRMAA_PS_FAILED
state upon execution.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_js_state - ""{drmaa_hold|drmaa_active}"""
Specifies the job state at submission. The string values 'drmaa_hold'
and 'drmaa_active' are supported. When 'drmaa_active' is used the job is submitted
in a runnable state.  When 'drmaa_hold' is used the job is submitted in user
hold state (either DRMAA_PS_USER_ON_HOLD or DRMAA_PS_USER_SYSTEM_ON_HOLD). This
attribute is largely equivalent to  the
.M qsub 1
submit option '-h'.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_wd - ""<directory_name>"""
Specifies the directory name where the job will be executed. A '$drmaa_hd_ph$' placeholder 
at the beginning of the
\fIdirectory_name\fP 
denotes the remaining string portion as a relative directory name that is
resolved relative to the job user's home directory at the execution 
host. When the DRMAA job template is used for bulk job submission (see also
.M drmaa_run_bulk_job 3 )
the '$drmaa_incr_ph$' placeholder can be used at any position within \fIdirectory_name\fP 
to cause a substitution with the parametric job's index. 
The \fIdirectory_name\fP must be specified in a syntax that is common at the host 
where the job is executed. If set to a relative path and no placeholder is used,
a path relative to the user's home directory is assumed.  If not set, the
working directory will default to the user's home directory.  If set and the
given directory does not exist the job will enter the DRMAA_PS_FAILED state when run.
.PP
Note that the working directory path is the path on the execution host.  If
binary mode is disabled, an attempt to find the job script will be made,
relative to the working directory path.  That means that the path to the script
must be the same on both the submission and execution hosts.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_job_name - ""<job_name>"""
Specifies the job's name. Setting the job name is equivalent to use of
.M qsub 1
submit option '-N' with \fIjob_name\fP as option argument. 
.PP
.SS "drmaa_input_path - ""[<hostname>]:<file_path>"""
Specifies the standard input of the job. Unless set elsewhere, if not explicitly set in 
the job template, the job is started with an empty input stream. If the standard input is set it 
specifies the network path of the job's input stream file. 
.PP
When the 'drmaa_transfer_files' job 
template attribute is supported and contains the character 'i', the input file will be fetched 
by xxQS_NAMExx from the specified host or from the submit host if no 
\fIhostname\fP is specified. When the 'drmaa_transfer_files' job template attribute is not 
supported or does not contain the character 'i', the input file is always expected at the 
host where the job is executed regardless of any \fIhostname\fP specified. 
.PP
If the DRMAA job template will be used for bulk job submission, 
(See also
.M drmaa_run_bulk_job 3 ) 
the '$drmaa_incr_ph$' placeholder can be used at any position 
within \fIfile_path\fP to cause a substitution with the parametric job's index. A '$drmaa_hd_ph$' 
placeholder at the beginning of \fIfile_path\fP denotes the remaining portion of the 
\fIfile_path\fP as a relative file specification resolved relative to the job user's home directory 
at the host where the file is located. A '$drmaa_wd_ph$' placeholder at the beginning of \fIfile_path\fP
denotes the remaining portion of the \fIfile_path\fP as a relative file specification resolved relative 
to the job's working directory at the host where the file is located. The \fIfile_path\fP must be specified 
in a syntax that is common at the host where the file is located. If set and the file can't be read 
the job enters the state DRMAA_PS_FAILED.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_output_path - ""[<hostname>]:<file_path>"""
Specifies the standard output of the job. If not explicitly set in the job template, the whereabouts of 
the job's output stream is not defined. If set, this attribute specifies the network path of the job's output stream file.
.PP
When the 'drmaa_transfer_files' job template attribute is supported and contains the character 'o',
the output file will be transferred by xxQS_NAMExx to the specified host or to the submit host if no 
\fIhostname\fP is specified. When the 'drmaa_transfer_files' job template attribute is not supported or 
does not contain the character 'o', the output file is always kept at the host where the job is executed 
regardless of any \fIhostname\fP specified. 
.PP
If the DRMAA job template will be used for of bulk job submission 
(see also 
.M drmaa_run_bulk_job 3 ) 
the '$drmaa_incr_ph$' placeholder can be used at any position within the \fIfile_path\fP
to cause a substitution with the parametric job's index. 
A '$drmaa_hd_ph$' placeholder at the
beginning of \fIfile_path\fP denotes the remaining portion of the \fIfile_path\fP as a relative file specification 
resolved relative to the job user's home directory at the host where the file is located. A '$drmaa_wd_ph$'
placeholder at the beginning of the \fIfile_path\fP denotes the remaining portion of \fIfile_path\fP as a 
relative file specification resolved relative to the job's working directory at the host where the file 
is located. The \fIfile_path\fP must be specified in a syntax that is common at the host where the file 
is located. If set and the file can't be written before execution the job enters the
state DRMAA_PS_FAILED.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_error_path - ""[<hostname>]:<file_path>"""
Specifies the standard error of the job. If not explicitly set in the job template, the whereabouts of the 
job's error stream is not defined. If set, this attribute specifies the network path of the job's error stream file.
.PP
When the 'drmaa_transfer_files' job template attribute is supported and contains the character 'e',
the output file will be transferred by xxQS_NAMExx to the specified host or to the submit host if no 
\fIhostname\fP is specified. When the 'drmaa_transfer_files' job template attribute is not supported 
or does not contain the character 'e', the error file is always kept at the host where the
job is executed regardless of any \fIhostname\fP specified. 
.PP
If the DRMAA job template will be used for of bulk job submission 
(see also 
.M drmaa_run_bulk_job 3 ) 
the '$drmaa_incr_ph$' placeholder can be used at any position within the \fIfile_path\fP
to cause a substitution with the parametric job's index. 
A '$drmaa_hd_ph$' placeholder at the beginning
of the \fIfile_path\fP denotes the remaining portion of the \fIfile_path\fP as a
relative file specification resolved relative to the job user's home directory at
the host where the file is located. A '$drmaa_wd_ph$' placeholder at the beginning
of the \fIfile_path\fP denotes the remaining portion of the \fIfile_path\fP as a
relative file specification resolved relative to the job's working directory at
the host where the file is located. The \fIfile_path\fP must be specified in a
syntax that is common at the host where the file is located. If set and the file
can't be written before execution the job enters the state
DRMAA_PS_FAILED. The attribute name is drmaa_error_path.

.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_join_files - ""{y|n}"""
Specifies if the job's error stream should be intermixed with the output stream. 
If not explicitly set in the job template the attribute defaults to 'n'. Either 'y'
or 'n' can be specified. If 'y' is specified xxQS_NAMExx will ignore the value 
of the 'drmaa_error_path' job template attribute and intermix the standard error 
stream with the standard output stream as specified with 'drmaa_output_path'.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_v_argv - ""argv1 argv2 ..."""
Specifies the arguments to the job.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "drmaa_job_category - ""<category>"""
Specifies the DRMAA job category. The \fIcategory\fP string is used 
by xxQS_NAMExx as a reference into the 
.M qtask 5
file. Certain 
.M qsub 1 
options used in the referenced qtask file line are applied to the job template 
before submission to allow site-specific resolving of resources and/or policies. 
The cluster qtask file, the local qtask file, and the user qtask file are
searched. Job settings resulting from job template category are overridden by
settings resulting from the job template drmaa_native_specification attribute
as well as by explicit DRMAA job template settings.
.PP
In order to avoid collisions with command names in the qtask files, it is
recommended that DRMAA job category names take the form: <category_name>.cat.
.PP
The options -help, -sync, -t, -verify, and -w w|v are ignored.  The -cwd option
is ignored unless the $SGE_DRMAA_ALLOW_CWD environment variable is set.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_native_specification - ""<native_specification>"""
Specifies xxQS_NAMExx native
.M qsub 1 
options which will be interpreted as part of the DRMAA job template.  All
options available to
.M qsub 1 
command may be used in the \fInative_specification\fP, except for -help, -sync,
-t, -verify, and -w w|v.  The -cwd option may only be used if the
SGE_DRMAA_ALLOW_CWD environment variable is set.  This is because the current
parsing algorithm for -cwd is not thread-safe.  Options set in the \fInative
specification\fP will be overridden by the corresponding DRMAA attributes.  See
.M qsub 1
for more information on qsub options.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_v_env - ""<name1>=<value1> <name2>=<value2> ..."
Specifies the job environment. Each environment \fIvalue\fP defines the remote 
environment. The \fIvalue\fP overrides the remote environment values if there 
is a collision.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_v_email - ""<email1> <email2> ..."
Specifies e-mail addresses that are used to report the job completion and status. 
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "drmaa_block_email - ""{0|1}"""
Specifies whether e-mail sending shall blocked or not.  By default email is not
sent.  If, however, a setting in a cluster or user settings file or the
'drmaa_native_specification' or 'drmaa_job_category' attribute enables sending
email in association with job events, the 'drmaa_block_email' attribute will
override that setting, causing no email to be sent.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_start_time - ""[[[[CC]YY/]MM/]DD] hh:mm[:ss] [{-|+}UU:uu]"""
Specifies the earliest time when the job may be eligible to be run where
.sp 1
.nf
.RS
CC is the first two digits of the year (century-1) 
YY is the last two digits of the year 
MM is the two digits of the month [01,12] 
DD is the two digit day of the month [01,31] 
hh is the two digit hour of the day [00,23] 
mm is the two digit minute of the day [00,59] 
ss is the two digit second of the minute [00,61] 
UU is the two digit hours since (before) UTC 
uu is the two digit minutes since (before) UTC 
.RE
.fi
.sp 1
If the optional UTC-offset is not specified, the offset associated with the local timezone will be 
used. If the day (DD) is not specified, the current day will be used unless the 
specified hour:mm:ss has already elapsed, in which case the next day will be used. 
Similarly for month (MM), year (YY), and century-1 (CC). 
Example: The time: Sep 3 4:47:27 PM PDT 2002, could be represented as: 2002/09/03 16:47:27 -07:00.
.PP
.\" 
.\"
.SS "drmaa_transfer_files - ""[i][o][e]"""
Specifies, which of the standard I/O files (stdin, stdout and stderr) are to be 
transferred to/from the execution host. If not set, defaults to "". Any combination
of 'e', 'i' and 'o' may be specified.
See drmaa_input_path, drmaa_output_path and drmaa_error_path for information about 
how to specify the standard input file, standard output file and standard error file.
The file transfer mechanism itself must be configured by the administrator (see 
.M sge_conf 5
). When it is configured, the administrator has to enable drmaa_transfer_files.
If it is not configured, "drmaa_transfer_files" is not enabled and can't be used.
.PP
.\"
.\" these are optional
.\" 
.\" .SS "drmaa_transfer_files"
.\" .PP
.\" 
.\" 
.\" .SS "drmaa_deadline_time"
.\" .PP
.\" 
.\" 
.\" .SS "drmaa_wct_hlimit"
.\" .PP
.\" 
.\" 
.\" .SS "drmaa_wct_slimit"
.\" .PP
.\" 
.\" 
.\" .SS "drmaa_duration_hlimit"
.\" .PP
.\" 
.\" 
.\" .SS "drmaa_duration_slimit"
.\" .PP
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_DRMAA_ALLOW_CWD\fP" 1.5i
Enables the parsing of the -cwd option from the sge_request file(s), job
category, and/or the native specification attribute.  This option is disabled
by default because the algorithm for parsing the -cwd option is not thread-safe.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell to be used. To address a
xxQS_NAMExx cell xxQS_NAMExx uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry instead
to define that port.
.\"
.\" 
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion, drmaa_get_attribute_names(), 
drmaa_get_vector_attribute_names(), and drmaa_get_next_attr_name()
return DRMAA_ERRNO_SUCCESS. Other values indicate an error.
Up to \fIerror_diag_len\fP characters of error related diagnosis 
information is then provided in the buffer \fIerror_diagnosis\fP.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERRORS"
The drmaa_get_attribute_names(), drmaa_get_vector_attribute_names(), and drmaa_get_next_attr_name()
functions will fail if:
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_INTERNAL_ERROR"
Unexpected or internal DRMAA error, like system call failure, etc.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_DRM_COMMUNICATION_FAILURE"
Could not contact DRM system for this request.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_AUTH_FAILURE"
The specified request is not processed successfully due to authorization failure.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_INVALID_ARGUMENT"
The input value for an argument is invalid.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_NO_ACTIVE_SESSION"
Failed because there is no active session.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_NO_MEMORY"
Failed allocating memory.
.\" 
.PP
The drmaa_get_next_attr_name() will fail if:
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_INVALID_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE"
When there are no more entries in the vector.
.PP
.\" 
.\" 
.\" 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M drmaa_jobtemplate 3 and
.M drmaa_submit 3 .
