'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: drmaa_misc.3,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/07/08 09:10:04 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.10 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de M    \" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH drmaa_misc 3 "$Date: 2008/07/08 09:10:04 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx DRMAA"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
drmaa_strerror, drmaa_get_contact, drmaa_version, drmaa_get_DRM_system \- Miscellaneous DRMAA functions.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include """drmaa.h"""
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBconst char *drmaa_strerror(\fB
.RS
\fBint drmaa_errno
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fB
.PP
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_contact(\fB
.RS
\fBchar *contact,\fB
\fBsize_t contact_len,\fB
\fBchar *error_diagnosis,\fB
\fBsize_t error_diag_len\fB
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fB
.PP
.nf
\fBint drmaa_version(\fB
.RS
\fBunsigned int *major,\fB
\fBunsigned int *minor,\fB
\fBchar *error_diagnosis,\fB
\fBsize_t error_diag_len\fB
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fB
.PP
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_DRM_system(\fB
.RS
\fBchar *drm_system,\fB
\fBsize_t drm_system_len,\fB
\fBchar *error_diagnosis,\fB
\fBsize_t error_diag_len\fB
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fB
.PP
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_DRMAA_implementation(\fB
.RS
\fBchar *drm_impl,\fB
\fBsize_t drm_impl_len,\fB
\fBchar *error_diagnosis,\fB
\fBsize_t error_diag_len\fB
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fB
.PP
.nf
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The drmaa_strerror() function returns a message text associated with the DRMAA error number,
\fIdrmaa_errno\fP. For invalid DRMAA error codes `NULL' is returned.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_get_contact()"
The drmaa_get_contact() returns an opaque string containing contact 
information related to the current DRMAA session to be used with the
.M drmaa_init 3
function. The opaque string contains the information required by drmaa_init()
to reconnect to the current session instead of creating a new session.
.M drmaa_init 3
function.
.PP
The drmaa_get_contact() function returns the same value before and after
.M drmaa_init 3
is called.
.PP
.\"
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_version()"
The drmaa_version() function returns into the integers pointed to by \fImajor\fP 
and \fIminor\fP, the major and minor version numbers of the DRMAA library.
For a DRMAA 1.0 compliant 
implementation `1' and `0' will be returned in \fImajor\fP and \fIminor\fP,
respectively.
.PP
.\"
.\" 
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_get_DRM_system()"
The drmaa_get_DRM_system() function returns into \fIdrm_system\fP up to 
\fIdrm_system_len\fP characters of a string containing xxQS_NAMExx product and 
version information.
.PP
The drmaa_get_DRM_system() function returns the same value before and after
.M drmaa_init 3
is called.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS "drmaa_get_DRMAA_implementation()"
The drmaa_get_DRMAA_implementation() function returns into \fIdrm_system\fP up to 
\fIdrm_system_len\fP characters of a string containing the xxQS_NAMExx DRMAA
implementation version information.  In the current implementation, the
drmaa_get_DRMAA_implementation() function returns the same result as the
drmaa_get_DRM_system() function.
.PP
The drmaa_get_DRMAA_implementation() function returns the same value before and
after
.M drmaa_init 3
is called.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell to be used. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell xxQS_NAMExx uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry instead
to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion, drmaa_get_contact(), drmaa_version(), and drmaa_get_DRM_system()
return DRMAA_ERRNO_SUCCESS. Other values indicate an error.
Up to \fIerror_diag_len\fP characters of error related diagnosis 
information is then provided in the buffer \fIerror_diagnosis\fP. 
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERRORS"
The drmaa_get_contact(), drmaa_version(), drmaa_get_DRM_system(), and
drmaa_get_DRMAA_implementation() will fail if:
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_INTERNAL_ERROR"
Unexpected or internal DRMAA error, like system call failure, etc.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_DRM_COMMUNICATION_FAILURE"
Could not contact DRM system for this request.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_AUTH_FAILURE"
The specified request is not processed successfully due to authorization failure.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_INVALID_ARGUMENT"
The input value for an argument is invalid.
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_NO_MEMORY"
Failed allocating memory.
.PP
The drmaa_get_contact() and drmaa_get_DRM_system() will fail if:
.\" 
.SS "DRMAA_ERRNO_NO_ACTIVE_SESSION"
Failed because there is no active session.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M drmaa_session 3 .
