'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_shepherd.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2007/07/19 09:04:33 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.12 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_SHEPHERD 8 "$Date: 2007/07/19 09:04:33 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd \- xxQS_NAMExx single job controlling agent
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd
provides the parent process functionality for a single xxQS_NAMExx job.
The parent functionality is necessary on UNIX systems to retrieve
resource usage information (see
.M getrusage 2 )
after a job has finished. In addition, the
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd
forwards signals to the job, such as the signals for suspension,
enabling, termination and the xxQS_NAMExx checkpointing signal (see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_ckpt 1
for details).
.PP
The
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd
receives information about the job to be started from the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 .
During the execution of the job it actually starts up to 5 child
processes. First a prolog script is run if this feature is enabled by
the \fBprolog\fP parameter in the cluster configuration. (See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 .)
Next a parallel environment startup procedure is run if the job is a parallel
job. (See
.M sge_pe 5
for more information.)
After that, the job itself is run, followed by a parallel environment shutdown
procedure for parallel jobs,
and finally an epilog script if requested by
the \fBepilog\fP parameter in the cluster configuration. The prolog
and epilog scripts as well as the parallel environment startup and shutdown
procedures are to be provided by the xxQS_NAMExx administrator
and are intended for site-specific actions to be taken before and
after execution of the actual user job.
.PP
After the job has finished and the epilog script is processed,
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd
retrieves resource usage statistics about
the job, places them in a job specific subdirectory of the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
spool directory for reporting through
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
and finishes.

.I xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd
also places an exit status file in the spool directory. This exit status can
be viewed with qacct -j JobId (see
.M qacct 1 );
it is not the exit status of 
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd
itself but of one of the methods executed by 
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd.
This exit status can have several meanings, depending on in which method
an error occurred (if any).
The possible methods are: prolog, parallel start, job, parallel stop,
epilog, suspend, restart, terminate, clean, migrate, and checkpoint.

The following exit values are returned:
.IP "0" 0.7i
All methods: Operation was executed successfully.
.IP "99" 0.7i
Job script, prolog and epilog: When
.I
FORBID_RESCHEDULE 
is not set in the configuration
(see 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 ),
the job gets re-queued.
Otherwise see "Other".
.IP "100" 0.7i
Job script, prolog and epilog: When
.I
FORBID_APPERROR
is not set in the configuration
(see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 ),
the job gets re-queued.
Otherwise see "Other".
.IP "Other" 0.7i
Job script: This is the exit status of the job itself. No action is taken upon
this exit status because the meaning of this exit status is not known.
.br
Prolog, epilog and parallel start: The queue is set to error state and the job is
re-queued.
.br
Parallel stop: The queue is set to error state, but the job is not re-queued. It
is assumed that the job itself ran successfully and only the clean up script failed.
.br
Suspend, restart, terminate, clean, and migrate: Always successful.
.br
Checkpoint: Success, except for kernel checkpointing: checkpoint was not 
successful, did not happen (but migration will happen by xxQS_NAMExx).
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd
should not be invoked manually, but only by
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
\fBsgepasswd\fB  contains  a  list  of  user  names   and   their
corresponding encrypted passwords. If available, the
password  file  will  be   used   by  \fBsge_shepherd\fB. To change the contents 
of this file please use the \fBsgepasswd\fB command. It is not advised to  change  
that file manually.
.nf
.ta \w'<execd_spool>/job_dir/<job_id>     'u
\fI<execd_spool>/job_dir/<job_id>\fR	job specific directory
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
