'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: SGE_Helper_Service.exe.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/10/08 19:52:37 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.4 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_Helper_Service.exe 8 "$Date: 2008/10/08 19:52:37 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
SGE_Helper_Service.exe \- xxQS_NAMExx job execution agent helper service
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SGE_Helper_Service.exe
[
.B \-help
|
.B \-install 
|
.B \-uninstall
]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I SGE_Helper_Service.exe helps the 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
to run Windows jobs that request to be allowed to display
their GUI on the visible Desktop. It is a Win32 service that is started at boot time
under the SYSTEM account, giving it the permissions to give any process the 
permissions to access the visible Desktop.
.br
This service runs independently of the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
(i.e. it is not started and stopped together with the execution daemon) and there
can be only one SGE_Helper_Service.exe per host.
.br
Jobs can request to be allowed to display their GUI on the visible desktop by 
requesting the resource "display_win_gui" (qsub -l display_win_gui=1). See
.M submit 1
, option "-v", for information on how to set a job environment variable.
.br
When running GUI jobs, the environment variable SGE_BACKGND_MODE can be used to
direct where the output of the GUI will be displayed. If the environment variable
SGE_BACKGND_MODE is set to "TRUE" or "1" and "-l display_win_gui=true" is requested,
the job is started by the helper service, but the GUI is not opened on the execution 
host's screen. Instead it is opened on a virtual screen. 
.br
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.SS "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.SS "\fB\-install\fP"
Installs the service. Only the local Administrator has the permissions to install the service.
.SS "\fB\-uninstall\fP"
Uninstalls the service. Only the local Administrator has the permissions to uninstall the service. Only a stopped service can be uninstalled. See the Windows command net.exe for information on how to stop a service.
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
