'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  The Contents of this file are made available subject to the terms of
.\"  the Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\" 
.\"  Sun Microsystems Inc., March, 2001
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\"  =================================================
.\"  The contents of this file are subject to the Sun Industry Standards
.\"  Source License Version 1.2 (the "License"); You may not use this file
.\"  except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.\"  License at http://www.gridengine.sunsource.net/license.html
.\" 
.\"  Software provided under this License is provided on an "AS IS" basis,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
.\"  WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
.\"  MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGING.
.\"  See the License for the specific provisions governing your rights and
.\"  obligations concerning the Software.
.\" 
.\"  The Initial Developer of the Original Code is: Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  Copyright: 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" 
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_schedd.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:38 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.2 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_SCHEDD 8 "$Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:38 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
xxqs_name_sxx_schedd \- xxQS_NAMExx job scheduling agent
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
[
.B \-help
] [
.B \-k
] [
.B \-salg
]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
computes the scheduling decision in a xxQS_NAMExx cluster. The information
necessary for the decision is retrieved from
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
via the xxQS_NAMExx Database Interface (GDI - see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_gdi 3
for details). After applying the scheduling algorithm, 
.I xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
communicates the scheduling decision back to
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
again via the xxQS_NAMExx GDI. In order to trigger a
.I xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
run,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
samples changes in the cluster status and notifies
.I xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
in periodical time intervals.
.br
Together with
.I xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
a
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
is brought up automatically on the same machine (if not
already present).
.PP
By using the \fI\-tsm\fP option of the
.M qconf 1
command, 
.I xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
can be forced to print trace messages of its next scheduling run to the
file \fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/schedd_runlog\fP. The messages indicate
the reasons for jobs and queues not being selected in that run
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints  a listing of all options.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-k\fP"
Initiates a controlled shutdown of a running
.I xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
on the same host.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-salg\fP"
Display a list of feasible scheduling algorithms to
choose from via the scheduler configuration (see
.M sched_conf 5 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I xxqs_name_sxx_schedd
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBCOMMD_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry instead
to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/spool/qmaster/schedd\fP
	xxqs_name_sxx_schedd spool directory
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/sched_runlog\fP
	xxqs_name_sxx_schedd trace information
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/sched_configuration\fP
	xxqs_name_sxx_schedd configuration
.fi
See
.M sched_conf 5
for details on the scheduler configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_gdi 3 ,
.M sched_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
