'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_qmaster.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/05/05 09:03:35 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.12 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER 8 "$Date: 2008/05/05 09:03:35 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster \- xxQS_NAMExx master control daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster
[
.B \-help
]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster
controls the overall xxQS_NAMExx behavior in a cluster. 
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints  a listing of all options.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_EXECD_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_execd" instead to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.I xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster
is usually started from root on the master or shadow master machines of the
cluster (refer to the
.I xxQS_NAMExx Installation and Administration Guide
for more information about the configuration of shadow master hosts).
If started by a normal user, a master spool directory must be used to which
the user has read/write access. In this case only jobs being submitted
by that same user are handled correctly by the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/configuration\fP
	xxQS_NAMExx global configuration
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/local_conf/<host>\fP
	xxQS_NAMExx host specific configuration
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/qmaster_args\fP
	\fIxxqs_name_sxx_qmaster\fP argument file
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/spool\fP
	Default master spool directory
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd 8 ,
.I xxQS_NAMExx Installation and Administration Guide
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
