'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  The Contents of this file are made available subject to the terms of
.\"  the Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\" 
.\"  Sun Microsystems Inc., March, 2001
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\"  =================================================
.\"  The contents of this file are subject to the Sun Industry Standards
.\"  Source License Version 1.2 (the "License"); You may not use this file
.\"  except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.\"  License at http://www.gridengine.sunsource.net/license.html
.\" 
.\"  Software provided under this License is provided on an "AS IS" basis,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
.\"  WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
.\"  MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGING.
.\"  See the License for the specific provisions governing your rights and
.\"  obligations concerning the Software.
.\" 
.\"  The Initial Developer of the Original Code is: Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  Copyright: 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" 
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_shadowd.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:38 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.2 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_SHADOWD 8 "$Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:38 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd \- xxQS_NAMExx shadow master daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd
is a "light weight" process which can be run on the so called shadow
master hosts in a xxQS_NAMExx cluster to detect failure of the current
xxQS_NAMExx master daemon
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
and to start-up a new
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
on the host on which the
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd
runs. If multiple shadow daemons are active in a cluster, they
run a protocol which ensures that only one of them will start-up
a new master daemon.
.PP
The  hosts suitable for being used as shadow master hosts must have
shared root read write access to the directory <xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common
as well as to the master daemon spool directory
(Default <xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/spool/qmaster).
The shadow master hosts need to be contained in the file 
<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/shadow_masters.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd
may only be started from root.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files. If not set a default of /usr/xxQS_NAMExx is used.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBCOMMD_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry instead
to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBCOMMD_HOST\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the host on which the particular
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
to be used for xxQS_NAMExx communication of the
.I xxqs_name_sxx_qstd
client resides.
Per default the local host is used.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common\fP
	Default configuration directory
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/shadow_masters\fP
	Shadow master hostname file.
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/spool/qmaster\fP
	Default master daemon spool directory
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 ,
.I xxQS_NAMExx Installation and Administration Guide.
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
