'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_st.8,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2007/10/30 16:54:07 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.1 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_ST 8 "$Date: 2007/10/30 16:54:07 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx Administrative Commands"
.SH NAME
util/sgeST/sge_st \- xxQS_NAMExx Service Tags Support control command
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sge_st
.B enable |
.B disable |
.B register |
.B unregister |
.B check |
.B enabled |
.B supported |
.B help
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I "sge_st" 
controls the xxQS_NAMExx support for Service Tags.
A Service Tag support improve the monitoring of usages of the xxQS_NAMExx. 
.br
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP "\fBenable\fP"
Enables the Service Tags support for xxQS_NAMExx. 
If the Service Tags packages are installed on the host, 
the presence of the product instance service tag is checked 
in every start of the qmaster daemon.
.sp
.IP "\fBdisable\fP"
Disables the Service Tags support for xxQS_NAMExx.
.sp
.IP "\fBregister\fP"
Create the product instance service tag.
.sp
.IP "\fBunregister\fP"
Remove the product instance service tag.
.sp
.IP "\fBcheck\fP"
Checks the status of the product instance service tag. If not registered, the option returns "unregistered".
If registered, the option returns "registered:<product_instance_urn>"
.sp
.IP "\fBenabled\fP"
Check the status of the service tags support. If the service tags are enabled by xxQS_NAMExx administrator, 
the option returns "true", otherwise "false".
.sp
.IP "\fBsupported\fP"
Checks if the Service Tags are supported on this host. This option validates the presence of the Service Tags packages on the host and 
checks if they are correctly installed. If Service Tags are supported on this host,
the option return a word "true", otherwise "false".
.sp
.\"
.SH "The Service Tags Support"
Service Tags enables automatic discovery of systems, software and services. 
A service tag uniquely identifies each tagged asset, 
and allows the asset information to be shared over a local network in a standard XML format.
.PP
The xxQS_NAMExx can create a service tag for one cluster installation.
A service tag entry is stored in the Service Tag registry. 
Each service tag has an unique instance identifier which is generated when the record is added to the registry. 
This identifier is used as the key when accessing the record.
.PP
The discoverer and listener services installed together with Service Tags on a host. They provide a way to discover 
a service tags via the network. The discoverer is a UDP-based application which exists to provide information about the listener.
The listener is a TCP-based application which provides a way to gather service tag and associated environmental information.
.PP
The discoverer service is used by operating system upgrade or register tools to send the service tags data to SUN. 
There is no other way, how to propagate the collected data to SUN than through the 
registration tool. The data to be send can be inspected and accepted. The Service Tags Data is going to be analyzed.
.\" 
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.I sge_st
The command must be called with xxQS_NAMExx admin rights or root permissions.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
\fBsge_st\fB creates a st.enabled file in \fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\\common directory. If available, the 
file contains the product related urn key. This key will be used for upgrading purposes. 
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/st.enabled\fP
	xxQS_NAMExx Service Tags Support enabling indicator
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.