'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: access_list.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/03/06 09:38:09 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.9 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH ACCESS_LIST 5 "$Date: 2008/03/06 09:38:09 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
access_list \- xxQS_NAMExx access list file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Access lists are used in xxQS_NAMExx to define access permissions of users
to queues (see
.M queue_conf 5 )
or parallel environments (see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_pe 5 ). 
A list of currently configured 
access lists can be displayed via the
.M qconf 1
\fB\-sul\fP option. The contents of each enlisted access list can
shown via the \fB\-su\fP switch. The output follows the
.I access_list
format description. New access lists can be created and existing can be
modified via the \fB\-au\fP and \fB\-du\fP options to
.M qconf 1 .
.PP
Departments are a special form of access list that additionally allow
assignment of functional shares and override tickets. 
.PP
Note, xxQS_NAMExx allows backslashes (\\) be used to escape newline
(\\newline) characters. The backslash and the newline are replaced with a
space (" ") character before any interpretation.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
The following list of \fIaccess_list\fP parameters specifies the
.I access_list
content:
.SS "\fBname\fP"
The name of the access list as defined for \fIuserset_name\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.SS "\fBtype\fP"
The type of the access list, currently  one  of 
.I ACL,
or 
.I DEPT 
or a  combination of both in a comma separated list. Depending on this parameter  
the access list can be used as access list only or as a department. 
.SS "\fBoticket\fP"
The amount of override tickets currently assigned to the department.
.SS "\fBfshare\fP"
The current functional share of the department.
.SS "\fBentries\fP"
The entries parameter contains the comma separated list of 
those UNIX users (see \fIuser_name\fP in
.M sge_types 1 )
or those primary UNIX groups that are assigned to the access list 
or the department. Only a user's primary UNIX group is used; secondary groups
are ignored. Only symbolic names are allowed.  A group
is differentiated from a user name by prefixing the group name with a '@' sign. 
Pure access lists allow enlisting any user or group in any access list.  
.PP
When using departments, each user or group enlisted may only be enlisted 
in one department, in order to ensure a unique assignment of jobs to departments. 
To jobs whose users do not match with any of the users or groups enlisted under entries the 
.I defaultdepartment 
is assigned, if existing. 
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M sge_types 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_pe 5 ,
.M queue_conf 5 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
