'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: bootstrap.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/05/21 09:47:35 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.10 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH BOOTSTRAP 5 "$Date: 2008/05/21 09:47:35 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
bootstrap \- xxQS_NAMExx bootstrap file
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I bootstrap
contains parameters that are needed for the startup of xxQS_NAMExx components.
It is created during the xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster installation.
Modifying
.I bootstrap
in a running system is not supported.
.PP
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.\"
The paragraphs that follow provide brief descriptions of the individual
parameters that compose the bootstrap configuration for a
xxQS_NAMExx cluster:
.\"
.SS "\fBadmin_user\fP"
Administrative user account used by xxQS_NAMExx for all internal file
handling (status spooling, message logging, etc.). Can be used in cases
where the root account does not have the corresponding file access
permissions (e.g. on a shared file system without global root read/write
access).
.PP
Being a parameter set at installation time changing \fBadmin_user\fP in
a running system is not supported. Changing it manually on a shut-down cluster
is possible, but if access to the xxQS_NAMExx spooling area is interrupted, 
this will result in unpredictable behavior.

The \fBadmin_user\fP parameter has no default value, but instead it is
defined during the master installation procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBdefault_domain\fP"
Only needed if your xxQS_NAMExx cluster covers hosts belonging to more than
a single DNS domain. In this case it can be used if your hostname resolving 
yields both qualified and unqualified hostnames for the hosts in one of the 
DNS domains. 
The value of
.B default_domain
is appended to the unqualified hostname to define a fully qualified hostname.
The 
.B default_domain
parameter will have no effect if 
.B ignore_fqdn
is set to "true".
.sp 1
Being a parameter set at installation time changing
.B default_domain
in a running system is not supported. The default for
.B default_domain
is "none", in which case it will not be used.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBignore_fqdn\fP"
Ignore fully qualified domain name component of hostnames. Should be set 
if all hosts belonging to a xxQS_NAMExx cluster are part of a single DNS 
domain. It is switched on if set to either "true" or "1". Switching it 
on may solve problems with load reports due to different hostname 
resolutions across the cluster.
.sp 1
Being a parameter set at installation time changing
.B ignore_fqdn
in a running system is not supported. The default for
.B ignore_fqdn
is "true".
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBspooling_method\fP"
Defines how 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
writes its configuration and the status information of a running cluster.
.PP
The available spooling methods are \fIberkeleydb\fP and \fIclassic\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBspooling_lib\fP"
The name of a shared library containing the \fBspooling_method\fP to be loaded 
at 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
initialization time.
The extension characterizing a shared library (.so, .sl, .dylib etc.) is not contained in \fBspooling_lib\fP.
.PP
If \fBspooling_method\fP was set to \fIberkeleydb\fP during installation, \fBspooling_lib\fP is set to \fIlibspoolb\fP, if \fIclassic\fP was chosen as \fBspooling_method\fP, \fBspooling_lib\fP is set to \fIlibspoolc\fP.
.PP
Not all operating systems allow the dynamic loading of libraries. On these
platforms a certain spooling method (default: berkeleydb) is compiled into the binaries and the 
parameter \fBspooling_lib\fP will be ignored.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBspooling_params\fP"
Defines parameters to the chosen spooling method.
.PP
Parameters that are needed to initialize the spooling framework, e.g. to open database files or to connect to a certain database server.
.PP
The spooling parameters value for spooling method \fIberkeleydb\fP is [rpc_server:]database directory, e.g. /sge_local/default/spool/qmaster/spooldb for spooling to a local filesystem, or myhost:sge for spooling over a Berkeley DB RPC server.
.PP
For spooling method \fIclassic\fP the spooling parameters take the form
<common_dir>;<qmaster spool dir>, e.g.
/sge/default/common;/sge/default/spool/qmaster
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBbinary_path\fP"
The directory path where the xxQS_NAMExx binaries reside. It is used within
xxQS_NAMExx components to locate and startup other xxQS_NAMExx programs.
.PP
The path name given here is searched for binaries as well as any directory
below with a directory name equal to the current operating system
architecture. Therefore, /usr/xxQS_NAME_Sxx/bin will work for all architectures,
if the corresponding binaries are located in subdirectories named aix43,
cray, lx24-x86, hp11, irix65, tru64, sol-sparc, etc.
.PP
The default location for the binary path is
<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/bin
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBqmaster_spool_dir\fP"
The location where the master spool directory resides. Only the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
and 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd 8
need to have access to this directory. 
The master spool directory \- in particular the job_scripts
directory and the messages
log file \- may become quite large depending on the size of the
cluster and the number of jobs. Be sure to allocate enough disk space
and regularly clean off the log files, e.g. via a
.M cron 8
job.
.PP
Being a parameter set at installation time changing \fBqmaster_spool_dir\fP
in a running system is not supported.
.PP
The default location for the
master spool directory is <xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/spool/qmaster.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBsecurity_mode\fP"
The security mode defines the set of security features the installed cluster is using.
.PP
Possible security mode settings are none, afs, dce, kerberos, csp.
(no additional security, AFS, DCE, KERBEROS, CSP security model).
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBlistener_threads\fP"
The number of listener threads (defaults set by installation).
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBworker_threads\fP"
The number of worker threads (defaults set by installation).
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBscheduler_threads\fP"
The number of scheduler threads (allowed: 0-1, default set by installation: 1, off: 0).
(see 
.M qconf 1
-kt/-at option)
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBjvm_threads\fP"
The number of jvm threads (allowed: 0-1, default set by installation, off: 0).
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
