'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH HOSTGROUP 5 "$Date: 2007/02/14 12:58:39 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
hostgroup \- host group entry file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A host group entry is used to merge host names to groups.
Each  host  group  entry  file defines one group. Inside a
group definition file you can also reference to groups. These
groups are called subgroups. A subgroup is referenced by the
sign "@" as first character of the name.
.PP
A list of currently configured host group entries can be displayed 
via the
.M qconf 1
\fB\-shgrpl\fP option. The contents of each enlisted host group entry 
can be
shown via the \fB\-shgrp\fP switch. The output follows the
.I hostgroup
format description. New host group entries can be created and existing can be
modified via the \fB\-ahgrp\fP, \fB\-mhgrp\fP, \fB\-dhgrp\fP and 
\fB\-?attr\fP options to
.M qconf 1 .
.PP
Note, xxQS_NAMExx allows backslashes (\\) be used to escape newline
(\\newline) characters. The backslash and the newline are replaced with a
space (" ") character before any interpretation.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
A host group entry contains following parameters:
.SS "\fBgroup_name\fP"
The group_name defines the host group name. Host group names have to
begin with an '@' character as explained for \fIhostgroup_name\fP in
.M sge_types 5 .
.SS "\fBhostlist\fP"
The name of all hosts and host groups (see 
\fIhost_identifier\fP in 
.M sge_types 1 )
which are member of the group. As list separators white-spaces are 
supported only. Default value for this parameter is NONE.
.PP
Note, if the first character of the \fIhost_identifier\fP is an "@" sign the name 
is used to reference a 
.M hostgroup 5 
which is taken as sub group of this group. 
.\"
.\"

.SH EXAMPLE
This is a typical host group entry:

.PP
group_name @bigMachines
.PP
hostlist @solaris64 @solaris32 fangorn balrog
.PP

The entry will define a new host group called 
\fB@bigMachines\fP. In this host group are the host 
\fBfangorn\fP, \fBbalrog\fP and all members of the host groups 
\fB@solaris64\fP and \fB@solaris32\fP.

.\"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx__types 1 ,
.M qconf 1
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
