'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: host_aliases.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2005/03/30 14:31:37 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.1 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH HOST_ALIASES 5 "$Date: 2005/03/30 14:31:37 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
host_aliases \- xxQS_NAMExx host aliases file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
All xxQS_NAMExx components use a hostname resolving service provided by
the communication library to identify hosts via a unique hostname. The
communication library itself references standard UNIX directory services
such as DNS, NIS and /etc/hosts to resolve hostnames. 
In rare cases these standard services
cannot be setup cleanly and xxQS_NAMExx communication daemons running on
different hosts are unable to automatically determine a unique hostname
for one or all hosts which can be used on all hosts. In such situations
a xxQS_NAMExx host aliases file can be used to provide the communication
daemons with a private and consistent hostname resolution database.
.PP
The location for the host aliases file is 
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/host_aliases.\fP
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
For each host a single line must be provided with a blank, comma or
semicolon separated list of hostname aliases. The first alias
is defined to be the \fBunique\fP hostname which will be used
by all xxQS_NAMExx components using the hostname aliasing service
of the communication library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
