'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: project.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2009/01/13 10:15:29 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.9 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH PROJECT 5 "$Date: 2009/01/13 10:15:29 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
project \- xxQS_NAMExx project entry file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Jobs can be submitted to projects, and a project can be assigned
with a certain level of importance via the functional or the override
policy. This level of importance is then inherited by the jobs executing
under that project.
.PP
A list of currently configured projects can be displayed via the
.M qconf 1
\fB\-sprjl\fP option. The contents of each enlisted project definition
can be shown via the \fB\-sprj\fP switch. The output follows the
.I project
format description. New projects can be created and existing can be
modified via the \fB\-aprj\fP, \fB\-mprj\fP and \fB\-dprj\fP options to
.M qconf 1 .
.PP
Note, xxQS_NAMExx allows backslashes (\\) be used to escape newline
(\\newline) characters. The backslash and the newline are replaced with a
space (" ") character before any interpretation.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
A project definition contains the following parameters:
.SS "\fBname\fP"
The project name as defined for \fIproject_name\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.SS "\fBoticket\fP"
The amount of override tickets currently assigned to the project.
.SS "\fBfshare\fP"
The current functional share of the project.
.SS "\fBacl\fP"
A list of user access lists (ACLs - see
.M access_list 5 )
referring to those users being allowed to submit jobs to the project.
.PP
If the \fBacl\fP parameter is set to NONE, all users are allowed to submit jobs
to the project except for those listed in \fBxacl\fP parameter described below.
.SS "\fBxacl\fP"
A list of user access lists (ACLs - see
.M access_list 5 )
referring to those users being not allowed to submit jobs to the project.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_types 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M access_list 5 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
