'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: qtask.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2005/03/30 14:31:37 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.5 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QTASK 5 "$Date: 2005/03/30 14:31:37 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
qtask \- file format of the qtask file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
.I qtask
file defines which commands are submitted
to xxQS_NAMExx for remote execution by
.M qtcsh 1 .
The
.I qtask 
file optionally may contain
.M qrsh 1
command-line parameters. These parameters are passed to the
.M qrsh 1
command being used by
.I qtcsh
to submit the commands.
.PP
A cluster global
.I qtask
file defining cluster wide defaults and a user specific
.I qtask
file eventually overriding and enhancing those definitions are
supported. The cluster global file resides at
<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell/common/qtask, while the user specific file
can be found at ~/.qtask. An exclamation mark preceding command
definitions in the cluster global can be used by the administrator to
deny overriding of such commands by users.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
The principle format of the
.I qtask
file is that of
a tabulated list. Each line starting with a '#' character
is a comment line. Each line despite comment lines defines
a command to be started remotely.
.sp 1
Definition starts with the command name that must match exactly the name as
typed in a
.M qtcsh 1
command-line. Pathnames are not allowed in
.I qtask
files. Hence absolute or relative pathnames in
.M qtcsh 1
command-lines always lead to local execution even if the commands itself
are the same as defined in the
.I qtask
files.
.sp 1
The command name can be followed by an arbitrary number of
.M qrsh 1
option arguments which are passed on to
.M qrsh 1
by
.M qtcsh 1 .
.sp 1
An exclamation mark
prefixing the command in the cluster global
.I qtask
file prevents overriding by the user supplied
.I qtask
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
The following
.I qtask
file
.sp 1
.nf
.RS
netscape -l a=sol-sparc64 -v DISPLAY=myhost:0
grep -l h=filesurfer
verilog -l veri_lic=1
.RE
.fi
.sp 1
designates the applications netscape, grep and verilog for interactive
remote execution through xxQS_NAMExx. Netscape is requested to run only
on Solaris64 architectures with the DISPLAY environment variable set
to 'myhost:0', grep only runs on the host named 'filesurfer' and verilog
requests availability of a verilog license in order to get executed
remotely.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qtcsh 1 ,
.M qrsh 1 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
