'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  The Contents of this file are made available subject to the terms of
.\"  the Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\" 
.\"  Sun Microsystems Inc., March, 2001
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\"  =================================================
.\"  The contents of this file are subject to the Sun Industry Standards
.\"  Source License Version 1.2 (the "License"); You may not use this file
.\"  except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.\"  License at http://www.gridengine.sunsource.net/license.html
.\" 
.\"  Software provided under this License is provided on an "AS IS" basis,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
.\"  WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
.\"  MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGING.
.\"  See the License for the specific provisions governing your rights and
.\"  obligations concerning the Software.
.\" 
.\"  The Initial Developer of the Original Code is: Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  Copyright: 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" 
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_h_aliases.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:36 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.2 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_H_ALIASES 5 "$Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:36 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
xxqs_name_sxx_h_aliases \- xxQS_NAMExx host aliases file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
All xxQS_NAMExx components use a hostname resolving service provided by
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
to identify hosts via a unique hostname.
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
itself references standard UNIX directory services such as DNS, NIS and
/etc/hosts to resolve hostnames. In rare cases these standard services
cannot be setup cleanly and xxQS_NAMExx communication daemons running on
different hosts are unable to automatically determine a unique hostname
for one or all hosts which can be used on all hosts. In such situations
a xxQS_NAMExx host aliases file can be used to provide the communication
daemons with a private and consistent hostname resolution database.
.PP
If a host aliases file is used, it must be specified explicitly to
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
via the \fB\-a\fP command line option.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
For each host a single line must be provided with a blank, comma or
semicolon separated list of hostname aliases. The first alias
is defined to be the \fBunique\fP hostname which will be used
by all xxQS_NAMExx components using the hostname aliasing service
of the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8 .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
