'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_request.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2004/04/19 10:52:10 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.5 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_REQUEST 5 "$Date: 2004/04/19 10:52:10 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
xxqs_name_sxx_request \- xxQS_NAMExx default request definition file format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xxqs_name_sxx_request
reflects the format of the files to define default request profiles. If
available, default request files are read and processed during job
submission before any submit options embedded in the job script and
before any options in the
.M qsub 1
or
.M qsh 1
command-line are considered. Thus, the command-line and embedded script
options may overwrite the settings in the default request files (see
.M qsub 1
or
.M qsh 1
for details).
.PP
.PP
There is a cluster global, a user private and a working directory local
default request
definition file. The working directory local default request file has the
highest precedence and is followed by the user private and then the
cluster global default request file.
.PP
\fBNote\fP, that the
.I -clear
option to
.M qsub 1
or
.M qsh 1
can be used to discard any previous settings at any
time in a default request file, in the embedded script flags
or in a
.M qsub 1
or
.M qsh 1
command-line option.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
The format of the default request definition files is:
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The default request files may contain an arbitrary number of lines.
Blank lines and lines with a '#' sign in the first column are skipped.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Each line not to be skipped may contain any
.M qsub 1
option as described in
the xxQS_NAMExx Reference Manual. More than one option per line is
allowed. The batch script file and argument options to the batch script
are not considered as
.M qsub 1
options and thus are not allowed in a
default request file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following is a simple example of a default request definition file:
.PP
.nf

=====================================================
# Default Requests File

# request group to be sun4 and a CPU-time of 5hr
-l arch=sun4,s_cpu=5:0:0

# don't restart the job in case of system crashes
-r n
=====================================================

.fi
.PP
Having defined a default request definition file like this and submitting a
job as follows:
.PP
.nf
qsub test.sh
.fi
.PP
would have precisely the same effect as if the job was submitted with:
.PP
.nf
qsub -l arch=sun4,s_cpu=5:0:0 -r n test.sh
.fi
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/   'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/xxqs_name_sxx_request\fP
	global defaults file
.ta \w'$HOME/.xxqs_name_sxx_request   'u
\fI$HOME/.xxqs_name_sxx_request\fP	user private defaults file
\fI$cwd/.xxqs_name_sxx_request\fP	cwd directory defaults file
.fi
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qsh 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.I xxQS_NAMExx Installation and Administration Guide
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
