'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: sge_aliases.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2004/04/19 10:52:09 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.4 $
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_ALIASES 5 "$Date: 2004/04/19 10:52:09 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
xxqs_name_sxx_aliases \- xxQS_NAMExx path aliases file format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The xxQS_NAMExx path aliasing facility provides administrators and users with
the means to reflect complicated and in-homogeneous file system structures
in distributed environments (such as user home directories mounted under
different paths on different hosts) and to ensure that xxQS_NAMExx is able to
locate the appropriate working directories for executing batch jobs.
.PP
There is a system global path aliasing file and a user local file.
.I xxqs_name_sxx_aliases
defines the format of both:
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Blank lines and lines with a '#' sign in the first column are skipped.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Each line other than a blank line or a line lead by '#' has to contain
four strings separated by any number of blanks or tabs.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The first string specifies a source-path, the second a submit-host, the
third an execution-host and the fourth the source-path replacement.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Both the submit- and the execution-host entries may consist of only a '*' 
sign which matches any host.
.PP
.\"
.\"
If the \fI-cwd\fP flag (and only if \- otherwise the user's
home directory on the execution host is selected to execute the job) to
.M qsub 1
was specified, the path aliasing mechanism is activated and the files are
processed as follows:
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
After
.M qsub 1
has retrieved the physical current working directory path,
the cluster global path aliasing file is read if present. The user path
aliases file is read afterwards as if it were appended to the global
file.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Lines not to be skipped are read from the top of the file one by one
while the translations specified by those lines are stored if
necessary.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
A translation is stored only if the submit-host entry matches the host
.M qsub 1
is executed on and if the source-path forms the initial part
either of the current working directory or of the source-path
replacements already stored.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
As soon as both files are read the stored path aliasing information is
passed along with the submitted job.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
On the execution host, the aliasing information will be evaluated. The
leading part of the current working directory will be replaced by the
source-path replacement if the execution-host entry of the path alias
matches the executing host. \fBNote:\fP The current working directory
string will be changed in this case and subsequent path aliases
must match the replaced working directory path to be applied.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following is a simple example of a path aliasing file resolving
problems with in-homogeneous paths if
.M automount 8
is used:
.PP
.nf

=====================================================
# Path Aliasing File
# src-path   sub-host   exec-host   replacement
/tmp_mnt/    *          *           /
# replaces any occurrence of /tmp_mnt/ by /
# if submitting or executing on any host.
# Thus paths on nfs server and clients are the same
=====================================================

.fi
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/   'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/xxqs_name_sxx_aliases\fP
	global aliases file
.ta \w'$HOME/.xxqs_name_sxx_aliases   'u
\fI$HOME/.xxqs_name_sxx_aliases\fP	user local aliases file
.fi
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.I xxQS_NAMExx Installation and Administration Guide
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
