'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: share_tree.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2009/05/28 16:56:20 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.9 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SHARE_TREE 5 "$Date: 2009/05/28 16:56:20 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
share_tree \- xxQS_NAMExx share tree file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The share tree 
defines the long-term resource entitlements of users/projects and of a 
hierarchy of arbitrary groups thereof.
.PP
The current share tree can be displayed via the
.M qconf 1
\fB\-sstree\fP option. The 
output follows the \fIshare_tree\fP format description. A share tree can be
created and an existing can be modified via the \fB\-astree\fP and
\fB\-mstree\fP options to 
.M qconf 1 .
The \fB\-sst\fP option shows a formatted share tree (tree view).
Individual share tree nodes can be created, modified, deleted, or shown
via the \fB\-astnode\fP, \fB\-dstnode\fP, \fB\-mstnode\fP, and
\fB\-sstnode\fP options to
.M qconf 1 .
.PP
Note, xxQS_NAMExx allows backslashes (\\) be used to escape newline
(\\newline) characters. The backslash and the newline are replaced with a
space (" ") character before any interpretation.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.\"
The format of a share tree file is defined as follows:
.IP "\(bu" 3n
A new node starts with the attribute \fBid\fP, and equal sign and the
numeric identification number of the node. Further attributes of that
node follow until another \fBid\fP-keyword is encountered.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The attribute \fBtype\fP defines, if a sharetree node references
a user (type=0), or a project (type=1)
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The attribute \fBchildnodes\fP contains a comma separated list of child
nodes to this node.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The parameter \fBname\fP refers to an arbitrary name for the node or to a
corresponding user (see
.M user 5 )
or project (see
.M project 5 )
if the
node is a leaf node of the share tree. The name for the root node of
the tree is "Root" by convention.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The parameter \fBshares\fP defines the share of the node among the nodes
with the same parent node.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
A user leaf node named 'default' can be defined as a descendant of a
.M project 5 )
node in the share tree. The default node defines the number
of shares for users  who are running in the project, but who do not have
a user node defined under the project. The default user node is a
convenient way of specifying a single node for all users which should
receive an equal share of the project resources. The default node may be
specified by itself or with other 
.M user 5 )
nodes at the same level below
a project. All users, whether explicitly specified as a user node or
those which map to the 'default' user node must have a corresponding
.M user 5 )
object defined in order to get shares. Do not configure a
.M user 5 )
object named 'default'. 

.\"
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Jobs of projects P1 and P2 get 50 shares, all other jobs get 10 shares.
.sp
.nf
id=0
name=Root
type=0
shares=1
childnodes=1,2,3
id=1
name=P1
type=1
shares=50
childnodes=NONE
id=2
name=P2
type=1
shares=50
childnodes=NONE
id=3
name=default
type=0
shares=10
childnodes=NONE
.fi
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M project 5 ,
.M user 5 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
