'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: user.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/07/08 09:10:06 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.10 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH USER 5 "$Date: 2008/07/08 09:10:06 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
user \- xxQS_NAMExx user entry file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
A user entry is used to store ticket and usage information on a
per user basis. Maintaining user entries for all users participating in a
xxQS_NAMExx system is required if xxQS_NAMExx is operated under a user share tree policy.
.PP
If the \fBenforce_user\fP cluster configuration parameter is set to \fIauto\fP,
a user object for the submitting user will be created automatically during
job submission, if one does not already exist. The \fBauto_user_oticket\fP,
\fBauto_user_fshare\fP, \fBauto_user_default_project\fP, and
\fBauto_user_delete_time\fP cluster configuration parameters will be used as
default attributes of the new user object.
.PP
A list of currently configured user entries can be displayed via the
.M qconf 1
\fB\-suserl\fP option. The contents of each enlisted user entry can be
shown via the \fB\-suser\fP switch. The output follows the
.I user
format description. New user entries can be created and existing can be
modified via the \fB\-auser\fP, \fB\-muser\fP and \fB\-duser\fP options to
.M qconf 1 .
.PP
Note, xxQS_NAMExx allows backslashes (\\) be used to escape newline
(\\newline) characters. The backslash and the newline are replaced with a
space (" ") character before any interpretation.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
A user entry contains four parameters:
.SS "\fBname\fP"
The user name as defined for \fIuser_name\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.SS "\fBoticket\fP"
The amount of override tickets currently assigned to the user.
.SS "\fBfshare\fP"
The current functional share of the user.
.SS "\fBdefault_project\fP"
The default project of the user.
.SS "\fBdelete_time\fP"
.B Note:
Deprecated, may be removed in future release.
.br
The wall-clock time when this user will be deleted, expressed as the number of
seconds elapsed since January 1, 1970. If set to zero, the affected user is
a permanent user. If set to one, the user currently has active jobs.
For additional information about automatically created
users, see the \fBenforce_user\fP and \fBauto_user_delete_time\fP parameters
in 
.M sge_conf 5 .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_types 1 ,
.M qconf 1 .
.M sge_conf 5 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
