'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  The Contents of this file are made available subject to the terms of
.\"  the Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\" 
.\"  Sun Microsystems Inc., March, 2001
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\"  =================================================
.\"  The contents of this file are subject to the Sun Industry Standards
.\"  Source License Version 1.2 (the "License"); You may not use this file
.\"  except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.\"  License at http://www.gridengine.sunsource.net/license.html
.\" 
.\"  Software provided under this License is provided on an "AS IS" basis,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
.\"  WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
.\"  MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGING.
.\"  See the License for the specific provisions governing your rights and
.\"  obligations concerning the Software.
.\" 
.\"  The Initial Developer of the Original Code is: Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  Copyright: 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" 
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" 
.\" $RCSfile: usermapping.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:37 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.2 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH USERMAPPING 5 "$Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:37 $"
.\"
.SH NAME
usermapping \- user mapping entry file format
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A usermapping entry is used to define alias names for a cluster 
user. The users name known by the sheduling system is called
cluster user. If the cluster name doesn't match the user account
name on an execution host, the usermapping feature can solve the
problem.
.PP
Each line in the usermapping entry file specifies a user name and
the host(s) where he has an account. 
.PP
A list of currently configured user mapping entries can be displayed 
via the
.M qconf 1
\fB\-sumapl\fP option. The contents of each enlisted user mapping entry 
can be
shown via the \fB\-sumap\fP switch. The output follows the
.I usermapping
format description. New user entries can be created and existing can be
modified via the \fB\-aumap\fP, \fB\-mumap\fP and \fB\-dumap\fP options to
.M qconf 1 .
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
A user mapping entry contains at least tree parameters:
.IP "\fBcluster_user keyword\fP"
The cluster_user keyword defines the cluster user name. The rest of
the textline after the keyword "cluster_user" will be taken as cluster
user value.

.IP "\fBname\fP"
The user name on an execution host.
.IP "\fBhostname\fP"
The name of the host where the user specified in \fBname\fP has an account.
If The first character of the hostname is a "@" sign the name is used to 
reference a 
.M hostgroup 5 .
.\"
.\"

.SH EXAMPLE
This is a typical user mapping entry for a cluster user mapping:

.PP
cluster_user office
.PP
.PP
alice     wonderland, realworld, @office2
.PP

The entry will map the user office which is defined in the cluster system to 
the user alice on the hosts wonderland and realworld. 
The "@" sign is used to reference a host group. So the user office is mapped 
to alice on all hosts specified in the host group office2. 
Please see 
.M hostgroup 5
to obtain for more information about that.
 



.\"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M qconf 1 , 
.M hostgroup 5 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
