'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qhold.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2007/01/05 19:56:12 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.10 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QHOLD 1 "$Date: 2007/01/05 19:56:12 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qhold \- hold back xxQS_NAMExx jobs from execution
.SH SYNTAX
.B qhold
[
\fB\-h\fP {\fBu\fP|\fBo\fP|\fBs\fP},...
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B job/task_id_list
]
.PP
.B qhold
[
\fB\-h\fP {\fBu\fP|\fBo\fP|\fBs\fP},...
] [
.B \-help
] 
.B -u user_list 
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qhold
provides a means for a user/operator/manager to place so called
.I holds
on one or more jobs pending to be scheduled for execution.
As long as any type of hold is assigned to a job, the
job is not eligible for scheduling.
.PP
Holds can be removed with the
.M qrls 1
or the
.M qalter 1
command.
.PP
There are three different types of holds:
.IP "\fBuser\fP"
User holds can be assigned and removed by managers, operators and the
owner of the jobs.
.IP "\fBoperator\fP"
Operator holds can be assigned and removed by managers and operators.
.IP "\fBsystem\fP"
System holds can be assigned and removed by managers only.
.PP
If no hold type is specified with the \fB\-h\fP option (see below)
the user hold is assumed by default.
.PP
An alternate way to assign holds to jobs is the
.M qsub 1
or the
.M qalter 1
command (see the \fI\-h\fP option).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP "\fB\-h\fP {\fBu\fP|\fBo\fP|\fBs\fP},..."
Assign a u(ser), o(perator) or s(system) hold or a combination thereof
to one or more jobs.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-u username,...\fP"
Changes are only made on those jobs which were submitted by
users specified in the list of usernames.
Managers are allowed to use the \fB\qhold -u "*"\fP command
to set a hold for all jobs of all users.
.sp 1
If a user uses the \fB\-u\fP switch, the user may
specify an additional \fI\job/task_id_list\fP.   
.\"
.IP "\fBjob/task_id_list\fP"
Specified by the following form:
.sp 1
.ta 0.5i
    \fIjob_id[.task_range][,job_id[.task_range],...]\fP
.ta 0.0i
.sp 1
If present, the \fItask_range\fP restricts the effect of the \fIqhold\fP
operation to the array job task range specified as suffix to the job id
(see the \fB\-t\fP option to
.M qsub 1
for further details on array jobs).
.sp 1
The task range specifier has the
form n[-m[:s]]. The range may be a single number, a  simple
range  of the form n-m or a range with a step size.
.sp 1
Instead of \fIjob/task_id_list\fP it is possible to
use the keyword 'all' to modify the hold state for all jobs of the
current user.     
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qhold
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qalter 1 ,
.M qrls 1 ,
.M qsub 1 .
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
