'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qhost.1,v $ 
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QHOST 1 "$Date: 2009/11/05 13:18:36 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qhost \- show the status of xxQS_NAMExx hosts, queues, jobs
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B qhost
[
.B -cb
] [
\fB\-F\fP [\fBresource_name,...\fP]
] [
.B -help
] [
.B -h host_list
] [
.B -j
] [
.B -l resource=val,...
] [
.B -u user,...
] [
.B -xml
].\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I qhost
shows the current status of the available xxQS_NAMExx hosts, queues and the
jobs associated with the queues. Selection options allow you
to get information about specific hosts, queues, jobs or users.
If multiple selections are done a host is only displayed if all
selection criteria for a host are met.
Without any options
.I qhost
will display a list of all hosts without queue or job
information.
.PP
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP "\fB\-F\fP [ \fBresource_name,...\fP ]"
.I qhost
will present a detailed listing of the current 
resource availability per host with respect to all resources (if the option 
argument is omitted) or with respect to those resources contained in the 
resource_name list. Please refer to the description of the
\fBFull Format\fP in 
section \fBOUTPUT FORMATS\fP below for further detail.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-cb\fP"
This command line switch can be used since xxQS_NAMExx version 6.2u5 in combination
with other 
.M qhost 1
command line switches. In that case the output
of the corresponding command will contain information concerning the
added job to core binding feature.
.sp
If this switch is not used then the command behaves as in version 6.2u4
and previous versions. 
.sp
If this option is used then two additional columns will be shown for
each displayed host in the output. The first is named NSOC and represents
the number of available sockets on that host. The second additional column is
named NCOR and it represents the number of cores that are available per
socket on the corresponding machine.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-h host_list\fP"
Prints a list of all hosts contained in host_list.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-j\fP"
Prints all jobs running on the queues hosted by the shown hosts. This 
switch calls \fB\-q\fP implicitly.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-l resource\fP[\fB=value\fP],..."
Defines the resources to be granted by the hosts which should be 
included in the host list output. Matching is performed on 
hosts based on non-mutable resource availability information only. 
That means load values are always ignored except the so-called static 
load values (i.e. "arch", "num_proc", "mem_total", "swap_total" and 
"virtual_total") ones. Also consumable utilization is ignored.
If there are multiple -l resource requests they will be concatenated by
a logical AND: a host needs to match all resources to be displayed.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-q\fP"
Show information about the queues instances hosted by the displayed hosts.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-u user,...\fP"
Display information only on those jobs and queues
being associated with the users from the given user list.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-xml\fP"
This option can be used with all other options and changes the output to XML. The used
schemas are referenced in the XML output. The output is printed to stdout.
.sp
If the \fB\-xml\fP parameter is combined with \fB\-cb\fP then the XML output will
contain additional tags containing information about job to core binding.
You can find schema files with the suffix "_cb" in the directory
$SGE_ROOT/util/resources/schemas/qhost that describe that changes.
.br
.\"
.\"
.SH "OUTPUT FORMATS"
Depending on the presence or absence of the \fB\-q\fP or \fB\-F\fP and
\fB\-j\fP option three output formats need to be differentiated.
PP
.\"
.SS "\fBDefault Format (without \-q, \-F and \-j)\fP"
For each host one line is printed. The output consists of
consisting of
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the Hostname 
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the Architecture.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the  Number of processors.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the Load.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the Total Memory.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the Used Memory.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the Total Swapspace.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the Used Swapspace.
.\"
.PP
If the \fB\-q\fP option is supplied, each host status line also contains
extra lines for every queue hosted by the host consisting of,
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the queue name.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the queue type \- one of B(atch), I(nteractive), C(heckpointing),
P(arallel), T(ransfer) or combinations thereof,
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the number of reserved, used and available job slots,
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the state of the queue \- one of
u(nknown) if the corresponding
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
cannot be contacted, a(larm), A(larm), C(alendar suspended), s(uspended),
S(ubordinate), d(isabled), D(isabled), E(rror) or 
combinations thereof.
.PP
If the state is a(alarm) at least one of the load thresholds defined in the 
\fIload_thresholds\fP list of the queue configuration (see
.M queue_conf 5 )
is 
currently exceeded, which prevents from scheduling further jobs to that 
queue.
.PP
As opposed to this, the state A(larm) indicates that at least one of the
suspend thresholds of the queue (see
.M queue_conf 5 )
is currently exceeded. This will result in jobs running in that queue being
successively suspended until no threshold is violated.
.PP
The states s(uspended) and d(isabled) can be assigned to queues and
released via the
.M qmod 1
command. Suspending a queue will cause all jobs executing in that queue to
be suspended.
.PP
The states D(isabled) and C(alendar suspended) indicate that the queue 
has been disabled or suspended automatically via the calendar facility of 
xxQS_NAMExx (see
.M calendar_conf 5 ),
while the S(ubordinate) state 
indicates, that the queue has been suspend via subordination to another 
queue (see
.M queue_conf 5
for details). When suspending a queue 
(regardless of the cause) all jobs executing in that queue are suspended 
too.
.PP
If an E(rror) state is displayed for a queue,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
on that host was unable to locate the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd 8
executable
on that host in order to start a job. Please check the
error logfile of that
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
for leads on how to resolve the problem. Please enable the
queue afterwards via the \fB-c\fP option of the
.M qmod 1
command manually.
.PP
If the \fB\-F\fP option was used, resource availability information is printed 
following the host status line. For each resource (as selected in an option 
argument to \fB\-F\fP or for all resources if the option argument was
omitted) a single line is displayed with the following format:
.IP "\(bu" 3n
a one letter specifier indicating whether the current resource availability 
value was dominated by either
.br
`\fBg\fP' - a cluster global,
.br
`\fBh\fP' - a host total or
.IP "\(bu" 3n
a second one letter specifier indicating the source for the current resource 
availability value, being one of
.br
`\fBl\fP' - a load value reported for the
resource,
.br
`\fBL\fP' - a load value for the resource after administrator
defined load scaling has been applied,
.br
`\fBc\fP' - availability derived from
the consumable resources facility (see
.M complexes 5 ),
.br
`\fBf\fP' - a fixed 
availability definition derived from a non-consumable complex attribute or 
a fixed resource limit.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
after a colon the name of the resource on which information is displayed.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
after an equal sign the current resource availability value.
.PP
The displayed availability values and the sources from which they derive are 
always the minimum values of all possible combinations. Hence, for example,
a line of the form "qf:h_vmem=4G" indicates that a queue currently has a 
maximum availability in virtual memory of 4 Gigabyte, where this value is a 
fixed value (e.g. a resource limit in the queue configuration) and it is queue 
dominated, i.e. the host in total may have more virtual memory available than 
this, but the queue doesn't allow for more. Contrarily a line "hl:h_vmem=4G" 
would also indicate an upper bound of 4 Gigabyte virtual memory 
availability, but the limit would be derived from a load value currently 
reported for the host. So while the queue might allow for jobs with higher 
virtual memory requirements, the host on which this particular queue resides 
currently only has 4 Gigabyte available.
.PP
After the queue status line (in case of \fB\-j\fP) a single line is printed
for each job running currently in this queue. Each job status
line contains
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the job ID,
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the job name,
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the job owner name,
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the status of the job \- one of t(ransfering),
r(unning), R(estarted), s(uspended), S(uspended) or T(hreshold) (see the
\fBReduced Format\fP section for detailed information),
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the start date and time and the function of the job (MASTER
or SLAVE - only meaningful in case of a parallel job) and
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the priority of the jobs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qhost 
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/act_qmaster\fP
	xxQS_NAMExx master host file
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qalter 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M qhold 1 ,
.M qmod 1 ,
.M qstat 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.M queue_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd 8 .
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
