'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qmod.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2009/05/11 12:23:44 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.22 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QMOD 1 "$Date: 2009/05/11 12:23:44 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qmod \- modify a xxQS_NAMExx queue and running job
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B qmod
[
.B options
] [
.B wc_job_range_list
|
.B wc_queue_list
]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qmod
enables users classified as \fIowners\fP (see
.M queue_conf 5
for details) of a workstation to modify
the state of xxQS_NAMExx queues for his/her machine as well
as the state of his/her own jobs.
A manager/operator or root can execute
.I qmod
for any queue and job in a cluster but only from administrative hosts.
Find additional information concerning
\fIwc_queue_list\fP and \fIwc_job_list\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP "\fB\-c\fP"
.B Note:
Deprecated, may be removed in future release.
Please use the \fB\-cj\fP or \fB\-cq\fP switch instead.
.br
Clears the error state of the specified jobs(s)/queue(s).
.IP "\fB\-cj\fP"
Clears the error state of the specified jobs(s).
.IP "\fB\-cq\fP"
Clears the error state of the specified queue(s).
.IP "\fB\-d\fP"
Disables the queue(s), i.e. no further jobs are dispatched to
disabled queues while jobs already executing in these queues
are allowed to finish.
.IP "\fB\-e\fP"
Enables the queue(s).
.IP "\fB\-f\fP"
Force the modification action for the queue despite the
apparent current state of the queue. For example if a queue
appears to be suspended but the job execution seems to be
continuing the manager/operator can force a suspend operation which
will send a SIGSTOP to the jobs. In any case, the queue or
job status will be set even if the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
controlling the queues/jobs cannot be reached. Requires
manager/operator privileges.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-r\fP"
.B Note:
Deprecated, may be removed in future release.
Please use the \fB\-rj\fP or \fB\-rq\fP switch instead.
.br
If applied to queues,
reschedules all jobs currently running in this queue.
If applied to running jobs, reschedules the jobs. Requires root or 
manager privileges.  In order for a job to be rescheduled, it or the queue in
which it is executing must have the rerun flag activated.  (See -r
option in the
.M qsub 1
man page and the \fIrerun\fP option in the
.M queue_conf 5
man page for more information.)
Additional
restrictions apply for parallel and checkpointing jobs.  (See the
\fIreschedule_unknown\fP description in the
.M sge_conf 5
man page for details).
.\"
.IP "\fB\-rj\fP"
If applied to running jobs, reschedules the jobs. Requires root or 
manager privileges.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-rq\fP"
If applied to queues,
reschedules all jobs currently running in this queue.
Requires root or manager privileges.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-s\fP"
.B Note:
Deprecated, may be removed in future release.
Please use the \fB\-sj\fP or \fB\-sq\fP switch instead.
.br
If applied to queues,
suspends the queues and any jobs which might
be active. If applied to running jobs, suspends the jobs. 
.\"
.IP "\fB\-sj\fP"
If applied to running jobs, suspends the jobs. If a job is
both suspended explicitly and via suspension of its queue, a
following unsuspend of the queue will not release the suspension
state on the job.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-sq\fP"
If applied to queues,
suspends the queues and any jobs which might
be active. 
.\"
.IP "\fB\-us\fP"
.B Note:
Deprecated, may be removed in future release.
Please use the \fB\-usj\fP or \fB\-usq\fP switch instead.
.br
If applied to queues,
unsuspends the queues and any jobs which might
be active. If applied to jobs, unsuspends the jobs.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-usj\fP"
If applied to jobs, unsuspends the jobs. If a job is
both suspended explicitly and via suspension of its queue, a
following unsuspend of the queue will not release the suspension
state on the job.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-usq\fP"
If applied to queues,
unsuspends the queues and any jobs which might
be active. 
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qmod
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/act_qmaster\fP
	xxQS_NAMExx master host file
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_ckpt 1 ,
.M qstat 1 ,
.M queue_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_types 1 .
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
