'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qmon.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/05/05 09:03:33 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.11 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QMON 1 "$Date: 2008/05/05 09:03:33 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qmon \- X-Windows OSF/Motif graphical user's interface for xxQS_NAMExx
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B "qmon"
[options]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qmon
allows administrators and users to manipulate the xxQS_NAMExx system
from an X-Window environment.
.I Qmon
provides various dialogues linked together in multiple ways.
For each task the user wishes to accomplish via
.I qmon
a corresponding dialogue is provided. There are
multiple ways to address the proper dialogue for a certain task:
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The
.I qmon
main window that comes up first on start-up contains icon buttons
for all major administrative and user tasks. A functionality tooltip
is displayed when pointing at the different icons.
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
A \fBTask\fP pulldown menu button appears in the
.I qmon
main window menu bar. Clicking on it opens a list of available
tasks. Selecting one of them opens the corresponding dialogue.
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
The \fBTask\fP pulldown menu also contains the key accelerators
which can be used to invoke the task dialogues directly from the
main window by pressing a certain button sequence on the
keyboard.
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
While navigating through a certain dialogue and its dialogue
subhierarchy, links to other dialogues occur whenever a
connection between both dialogues is obvious. Pushing
the buttons that identify the links opens up the
other dialogues.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
The supported options are the standard X Toolkit options as
described in
.M X 1
section \fBOptions\fP. Furthermore,
.I qmon
supports:
.\"
.IP "\fB\-cmap\fP"
Installs a private color map for
.I qmon.
This is sometimes useful if other applications have already
allocated lots of colors and if
.I qmon,
therefore, prints corresponding error messages. \fBNote\fP, however,
that using a private color map will result in color map switches
whenever you enter or leave
.I qmon
windows.
.IP "\fB\-fontFamily {big|medium|small}\fP"
Notifies
.I qmon
to use different sized font families for different resolution
sizes.
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Displays usage information.
.IP "\fB\-nologo\fP"
Startup without logo.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIALOGUES
.SS "\fBJob Control\fP"
The \fBJob Control\fP dialogue provides a folder of tabulated lists of the 
still pending jobs, already running jobs and recently finished jobs. 
The dialogue allows for detailed information on the jobs as well as for 
the deletion and suspension of jobs being selected. 
In addition the job control dialogue offers links to the \fBSubmit\fP 
dialogue in order to submit new jobs or to change attributes of pending 
jobs (\fBQalter\fP button). The shown displayed fields in the tabular display
and the jobs displayed can be customized by pressing the \fBCustomize\fP 
button. This customization can be saved to the \fI~/.qmon_preferences\fP file
and is used on following startups for the initial configuration of the 
\fBJob Control\fP dialogue.

.\"
.SS "\fBQueue Control\fP"
The \fBQueue Control\fP dialogue with its sub-dialogue hierarchy enables the
user to control the status of the xxQS_NAMExx queues being actually configured
in the system and allows the administrator to add new queues or to modify
or delete already existing ones. The \fBQueue Control\fP dialogue shows a
tabbed view of Cluster Queues or their corresponding Queue Instances in a tabular way.
.sp 1
By pushing the \fBAdd\fP, \fBClone\fP or \fBModify\fP button, a sub-dialogue 
for configuring xxQS_NAMExx queues is opened. 
A queue needs to be selected to use the clone and modify operation. The 
configuration sub-dialogue allows for definition of the queue and its attributes.
The configuration sub-dialogue contains in the upper section the queue name and a list of hosts or hostgroups for which this queue contains the configuration.
The lower section contains a list of hosts or hostgroups at the left, where the default attributes are shown when the "@/" entry is highlighted.
These default attributes can be overruled on a hostgroup or host basis by enabling attributes and changing their values after this hostgroup or host entry has been added in the "Attributes for Host/Hostgroup" listbox. 
The queue configuration parameters (see
.M queue_conf 5 )
are subdivided in different categories (\fBGeneral Configuration\fP,
\fBExecution Methods\fP, \fBCheckpointing\fP, \fBLoad/Suspend Thresholds\fP,
\fBLimits\fP, \fBComplexes\fP, \fBUser Access\fP, 
\fBProject Access, \fBSubordinate Queues\fP, \fBOwners\fP)
which are selectable by the tab widget area presented in the lower region 
of the queue configuration sub-dialogue. 
The administrator may select previously configured settings from 
already existing queues (\fBClone\fP button). By pushing the \fBOk\fP
button, the definitions are registered with
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
The \fBQueue Control\fP dialogue can be customized in a similar way as the
\fBJob Control\fP dialogue. The settings applied here are also saved in
\fI~/.qmon_preferences\fP.
.\"
.SS "\fBSubmit\fP"
The
.B Job Submission
dialogue serves for submitting batch and interactive 
jobs and is also invoked when changing attributes of pending jobs from the 
.B Job Control
dialogue explained above (\fBQalter\fP button). To toggle between 
batch and interactive jobs please use the
.B Batch/Interactive
button at the top 
of the button column on the right side of the
.B Job Submission
screen.
.sp 1
The dialogue consists of a folder containing two job preparation dialogue pages. The most frequently used parameters in the course of a job submission are offered on the \fBGeneral\fP page. A job script has to be
defined, all other fields are optional. If the job demands for specification
of advanced requirements, the \fBAdvanced\fP tab can be used to
switch to an enhanced parameter display.
.sp 1
If resource requirements are
mandatory for the job, the \fBRequest Resources\fP icon button has to
be used to pop up the \fBRequested Resources\fP sub-dialogue. 
This sub-dialogue allows for selection of the required resources of the job
and for definition of the quantities in which this resources are to be
provided. The \fBAvailable Resources\fP are constituted by those
complex attributes being declared \fIrequestable\fP (see
.M complex 5
for details). Resource requirements can be made \fBHard\fP, i.e. they
must be met before a job can be started in a queue, or \fBSoft\fP,
i.e. they are granted on an as available basis.
.sp 1
Closing the \fBRequested Resources\fP sub-dialogue with the done button
books the specified requirement for the job. Pushing the \fBSubmit\fP
button on the top level \fBSubmit\fP dialogue submits the job.
.\"
.SS "\fBComplex Config\fP"
The
.B Complex Config
allows the administrator to add new complex attributes or to 
modify or delete existing ones (see
.M complex 5 ).
The complex configuration dialogue provides a tabulated list of
the complex attribute entries and an input region for the declaration of new or modified 
entries. The
.B Add
button updates the tabulated list with a new attribute.
The
.B Modify
button changes a highlighted existing entry.
The
.B Delete
button removes the highlighted attributes.
The
.B Load and Save
buttons allow saving or reloading the whole attribute list to or from file.
The
.B Ok
button registers the additional or modified complex attributes with 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.SS "\fBHost Config\fP"
Four types of host related lists can be maintained via the \fBHost Config\fP
dialogue:
.sp 1
.nf
.RS
Administration Hosts
Submit Hosts
Host Groups
Execution Hosts
.RE
.fi
.sp 1
The host list to be manipulated is selected via clicking at one of the tabs 
named correspondingly. The first two host lists only provide for adding or 
deleting entries, thereby allowing administrative or submit permission for the 
hosts on the lists, or denying it otherwise respectively.
The host group list allows the manipulation of host groups. Host groups can reference either other host groups or hosts.
The execution host list 
entries in addition provide the ability to define scaling factors for the load 
sensors, consumable complex attributes and access attributes 
(access, xaccess and projects, xprojects) as described in
.M complex 5 .
CPU, memory and I/O usage reported for running jobs can be 
scaled in addition and the relative performance of a host can be define with 
the
.B Resource Capability Factor
(see
.M host_conf 5 ).
.\"
.SS "\fBCluster Config\fP"
This dialogue maintains the cluster global configuration as well as
host specific derivatives (see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 ).
When opened, the dialogue displays a selection list for all hosts which
have a configuration assigned. The special name "global" refers to the
cluster global configuration. By pushing the \fBAdd/Modify\fP button
a sub-dialogue is opened, which allows for modification of the cluster
configuration. For host specific configurations the 'global' host specific
configuration fields are set insensitive and only the allowed parameters
can be manipulated.
.\"
.SS "\fBScheduler Config\fP"
The
.B Scheduler Configuration
dialogue provides the means to change the 
behavior of the xxQS_NAMExx scheduler thread part of
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 
process.
The dialogue 
contains a representation for all scheduler configuration parameters as 
described in
.M sched_conf 5 .
It is subdivided in the two sections
.B General Parameters
and
.B Load Adjustments
which can be selected via the corresponding tabs.
The
.B Ok
button registers any changes with 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.SS "\fBCalendar Config\fP"
The
.B Calendar Config
allows the administrator to add new calendars or to 
modify or delete existing ones (see
.M calendar_conf 5 ).
The dialogue offers a 
selection list for the existing calendars and displays the configuration of the 
one being selected. By pushing the
.B Delete
button, the selected calendar is 
deleted from the configuration. Pushing the \fBAdd\fP/\fBModify\fP
button will open a 
calendar configuration dialogue, which allows to create new calendars or 
which provides the means to change the existing ones. The
.B Ok
button registers the additional or modified calendar with
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 . 
.\"
.SS "\fBUser Config\fP"
User permissions are controlled via the \fBUser Config\fP dialogue.
The tab widget 
in the left section of the dialogue allows for selecting between
.sp 1
.nf
.RS
Configuration of \fBManager\fP accounts.
Configuration of \fBOperator\fP accounts.
Definition of \fBUsersets\fP.
Definition of \fBUser\fP accounts.
.RE
.fi
.sp 1
Those user accounts added to the list of manager or operator accounts
are given permission to act as managers or operators respectively when
accessing xxQS_NAMExx under their own account.
.sp 1
The userset lists are used together with the
.B user_lists
and
.B xuser_lists
host, queue, project and cluster configuration parameters (see
.M queue_conf 5 ,
.M project 5
and 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 )
to control access of users to hosts, queues, projects and the entire cluster.
A userset is just a
collection of user names and UNIX group names. Group names are
identified by prefixing them with a "@" sign. The already defined
usersets are displayed in a selection list. These lists can be
modified and new lists can be created using the
.B Userset
definition dialogue.
.sp 1
Usersets can be used as
.B Access List
and/or as
.B Department
required for the so called 
.B Functional Policy
and
.B Override Policy
(see
.B Ticket Config
below).
.sp 1
User names can be added to the system as entries to the xxQS_NAMExx user database (see
.M user 5 ), here a default project can be attached to the user too.
This can be done with the 
.B User
sub-dialogue.
.sp 1
The
.B Tickets
button in the button list on the right side of the dialogue opens the 
.B Ticket Config
dialogue (see below).
.\"
.SS "\fBPE Config\fP"
Parallel environment (PE) interfaces can be configured with this dialogue.
PE interfaces are necessary to describe the way how parallel programming
environments like PVM (Parallel Virtual Machine), MPI (Message Passing
Interface) or shared memory parallel systems are to be instantiated and
to impose access restrictions onto the PEs. When the dialogue is opened a
list of the already configured PEs is displayed together with the current
configuration (see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_pe 5 )
of the selected PE interface.
To add new PE interfaces or to modify existing ones, an \fBAdd\fP and a
\fBModify\fP button is available which opens a PE interface configuration
sub-dialogue. After applying the changes and quitting this sub-dialogue
with the \fBOK\fP button, the new or modified PE interface is registered
with
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.SS "\fBCheckpoint Config\fP"
Checkpointing environment interfaces can be configured with this dialogue. 
Checkpointing environments are necessary to describe the attributes which 
the different checkpointing methods and their derivatives on various 
operating system platforms supported by xxQS_NAMExx have. When the dialogue 
is opened a list of the already configured checkpointing environments is 
displayed together with the current configuration (see
.M checkpoint 5 )
of the 
selected checkpointing environment. To add new checkpointing environment 
or to modify existing ones, an \fBAdd\fP and a \fBModify\fP button
is available which 
opens a checkpointing environment configuration sub-dialogue. After 
applying the changes and quitting this sub-dialogue with the \fBOK\fP
button, the 
new or modified checkpointing environment is registered with
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.SS "\fBTicket Conf\fP"
This dialogue offers an overview and editing screen for allocating tickets
to the share-based, functional and override scheduling policies.
.PP
The \fBDeadline Job\fP button opens the \fBUser Conf\fP dialogue box.
Please change 
to the Userset sub-dialogue and select the userset named "deadlineusers".
Only users of this userset may submit deadline jobs.
.sp 1
The \fBShare Tree Policy\fP button opens the dialogue for
creating and editing the xxQS_NAMExx share tree (see
.M share_tree 5
and
.M schedd_conf 5
for a description of the configuration parameters).
.sp 1
The \fBFunctional Policy\fP button opens the dialogue
for creating and editing the allocation of the functional shares (see
.M sched_conf 5 ,
.M access_list 5 , 
.M project 5 ,
.M queue_conf 5
and
.M user 5
for a description of the different types 
of functional shares and the configurable weighting parameters).
.sp 1
The \fBOverride Policy\fP button opens the dialogue for creating and
editing the allocation of override tickets (see
.M access_list 5 ,
.M project 5 ,
.M queue_conf 5
and
.M user 5
for a description of the different types of override tickets).
.\"
.SS "\fBProject Conf\fP"
This button opens a dialog for creating projects.
.br
The dialogue offers a selection list for the existing projects and displays the 
configuration of the one being selected. By pushing the
.B Delete
button, the selected project is deleted from the configuration. Pushing the
\fBAdd\fP/\fBModify\fP 
button will open a project configuration dialogue, which allows to create new 
projects or which provides the means to change the existing ones. Project
configuration in essence means giving or denying access to a project for
usersets (see
.B User Conf
above as well as
.M project 5 ).
The Ok button registers the additional or modified project with
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBBrowser\fP"
The \fBObject Browser\fP dialogue's purpose is manifold: First of all,
xxQS_NAMExx and
.I qmon
messages such as notification of error or success concerning a previously
taken action can be displayed in the dialogue's output window.
Also the standard output and the standard error output of
.I qmon
can be diverted to the \fBObject Browser\fP output window.
.sp 1
Additionally the \fBObject Browser\fP can be used to display continuous
information about xxQS_NAMExx objects as the mouse pointer moves over
their representation as icons or table entries in other
.I qmon
dialogues. Currently, only the display of the configuration of two
xxQS_NAMExx objects in two separate dialogues is supported:
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Queue configurations are displayed as soon as the mouse pointer
enters a queue icon in the top level \fBQueue Control\fP
dialogue (see above). This facility is activated by pushing the
\fBQueue\fP button in the \fBObject Browser\fP dialogue.
.\"
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Detailed job information is printed as soon as the user
moves the mouse pointer over a line in the \fBJob Control\fP
dialogue (see above) being assigned to a running or pending job.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
Additionally job scheduling information is displayed in the browser
if the \fBWhy ?\fP button in the \fBJob Control\fP dialogue is
pressed. In this case the Browser dialogue is opened implicitly and
any scheduling related information is displayed.
.\"
.SS "\fBExit\fP"
The \fBExit\fP icon button is not linked with a dialogue. Its
sole purpose is to close all active
.I qmon
dialogues and to exit the application.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RESOURCES"
The available resources, their meaning and the syntax to be
followed in order to modify them are described in the default
.I qmon
resource file (see the section \fBFiles\fP below for the location
of the resource file).
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qmon
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry instead
to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RESTRICTIONS"
If the line to be entered in an editing window is longer than the
width of the window, then the text just runs off the end of the window.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.nf
.ta \w'/usr/lib/X11/defaults/Qmon     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/qmon/Qmon\fP	\fIQmon\fP sample resources file
\fI/usr/lib/X11/defaults/Qmon\fP	\fIQmon\fP system resources file
\fI$HOME/Qmon\fP	\fIQmon\fP user resources file
\fI$HOME/.qmon_preferences\fP	\fIQmon\fP job/queue customization file
.fi

.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 ,
.M access_list 5 , 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_pe 5 ,
.M calendar_conf 5 ,
.M complex 5 , 
.M project 5 , 
.M queue_conf 5 ,
.M sched_conf 5 ,
.M user 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 . 
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
and the information provided in <xxqs_name_sxx_root>/3rd_party/qmon
for a statement
of further rights and permissions and for credits to be given to public
domain and freeware widget developers. 
