'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qping.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2009/03/12 16:06:25 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.14 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QPING 1 "$Date: 2009/03/12 16:06:25 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qping \- check application status of xxQS_NAMExx daemons.
.PP
.SH SYNTAX
.B "qping [-help] [-noalias] [-ssl|-tcp] [ [ [-i <interval>] [-info] [-f] ] | [ [-dump_tag tag [param] ] [-dump] [-nonewline] ] ]"
.B <host> <port> <name> <id>
.\"
.\"
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qping
is used to validate the runtime status of a xxQS_NAMExx service daemon. The current
xxQS_NAMExx implementation allows one to query the xxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER daemon and any
running xxQS_NAME_Sxx_EXECD daemon. The qping command is used to send a SIM (Status
Information Message) to the destination daemon. The communication layer of the 
specified daemon will respond with a SIRM (Status Information Response Message) which
contains status information about the consulted daemon.

The qping -dump and -dump_tag options allowing an administrator to observe the communication
protocol data flow of a xxQS_NAMExx service daemon. The qping -dump instruction must be started
with root account and on the same host where the observed daemon is running.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.SS "\fB\-f\fP"
Show full status information on each ping interval.

\fIFirst output Line:\fP
The first output line shows the date and time of the request.

\fISIRM version:\fP
Internal version number of the SIRM (Status Information Response Message)

\fISIRM message id:\fP
Current message id for this connection

\fIstart time:\fP
Start time of daemon. The format is as follows:

MM/DD/YYYY HH:MM:SS (seconds since 01.01.1970)

\fIrun time [s]:\fP
Run time in seconds since start time

\fImessages in read buffer:\fP
Nr. of buffered messages in communication buffer. The messages are buffered
for the application (daemon). When this number grows too large the daemon is not able
to handle all messages sent to it. 

\fImessages in write buffer:\fP
Nr. of buffered messages in the communication write buffer. The messages are sent
from the application (daemon) to the connected clients, but the communication 
layer wasn't able to send the messages yet. If this number grows too large, the
communication layer isn't able to send them as fast as the application (daemon) wants
the messages to be sent.

\fInr. of connected clients:\fP
This is the number of actual connected clients to this daemon. This also implies the
current qping connection.

\fIstatus:\fP
The status value of the daemon. This value depends on the application which reply to
the qping request.
If the application does not provide any information the status is 99999.
Here are the possible status information values for the xxQS_NAMExx daemons:

.in +3
qmaster:

.in +3
\fI0\fP
There is no unusual timing situation.
.in -3

.in +3
\fI1\fP
One or more threads has reached warning timeout. This may happen when 
at least one thread does not increment his time stamp for a not usual long
time. A possible reason for this is a high workload for this thread.
.in -3
    
.in +3
\fI2\fP
One or more threads has reached error timeout. This may happen when 
at least one thread has not incremented his time stamp for longer than
10 minutes.
.in -3

.in +3
\fI3\fP
The time measurement is not initialized.
.in -3

execd:

.in +3
\fI0\fP
There is no unusual timing situation.
.in -3

.in +3
\fI1\fP
Dispatcher has reached warning timeout. This may happen when 
the dispatcher does not increment his time stamp for a unusual long
time. A possible reason for this is a high workload.
.in -3
    
.in +3
\fI2\fP
Dispatcher has reached error timeout. This may happen when 
the dispatcher has not incremented his time stamp for longer than
10 minutes.
.in -3

.in +3
\fI3\fP
The time measurement is not initialized.
.in -3
.in -3


\fIinfo:\fP
Status message of the daemon. This value depends on the application which reply to
the qping request.
If the application does not provide any information the info message is "not available".
Here are the possible status information values for the xxQS_NAMExx daemons:

.in +3

qmaster:

.in +3
The info message contains information about the qmaster threads followed by a thread
state and time information. Each time when one of the known threads pass through their
main loop the time information is updated. Since the qmaster has two message threads
every message thread updates the time. This means the timeout for the message
thread (MT) can only occur when no message thread is active anymore:

.in +3
THREAD_NAME: THREAD_STATE (THREAD_TIME)
.in -3 

.in +3
THREAD_NAME:
.in +3
.nf
MAIN: Main thread 
signaler: Signal thread 
event_master: Event master thread 
timer: Timer thread 
worker: Worker thread
listener: Listener thread
scheduler: Scheduler thread
jvm: Java thread 

The thread names above will be followed by a 3 digit number.
.fi
.in -3

THREAD_STATE:
.in +3
.nf
R: Running
W: Warning
E: Error
.fi
.in -3

THREAD_TIME:
.in +3
.nf
Time since last timestamp updating.
.fi
.in -3
.in -3

After the dispatcher information follows an additional information string which describes the
complete application status.
.in -3

execd:

.in +3
The info message contains information for the execd job dispatcher:
.in +3
dispatcher: STATE (TIME)
.in -3

STATE:
.in +3
.nf
R: Running
W: Warning
E: Error
.fi
.in -3

TIME:
.in +3
.nf
Time since last timestamp updating.
.fi
.in -3
.in -3

After the thread information follows an additional information string which describes the
application status.

.in -3
.in -3
\fIMonitor:\fP
If available, displays statistics on a thread. The data for each thread is
displayed in one line. The format of this line can be changed at any time. Only the
master implements the monitoring.

.SS "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a list of all options.

.SS "\fB\-i interval\fP"
Set qping interval time.

The default interval time is one second. Qping will send a SIM (Status Information Message)
on each interval time.

.SS "\fB\-info\fP"
Show full status information (see \fB\-f\fP for more information) and exit. The exit
value 0 indicates no error. On errors qping returns with 1.

.SS "\fB\-noalias\fP"
Ignore host_aliases file, which is located at 
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/host_aliases.\fP
If this option is used it is not necessary to set any xxQS_NAMExx environment
variable. 

.SS "\fB\-ssl\fP"
This option can be used to specify
an SSL (Secure Socket Layer) configuration. The qping will use the configuration
to connect to services running SSL. If the SGE settings file is not sourced, you
have to use the -noalias option to bypass the need for the SGE_ROOT environment
variable.
The following environment variables are used to specify your certificates:
  SSL_CA_CERT_FILE - CA certificate file
  SSL_CERT_FILE    - certificates file
  SSL_KEY_FILE     - key file
  SSL_RAND_FILE    - rand file

.SS "\fB\-tcp\fP"
This option is used to select TCP/IP as the protocol used to connect to other services.

.SS "\fB\-nonewline\fP"
Dump output will not have a linebreak within a message and binary messages are
not unpacked.

.SS "\fB\-dump\fP"
This option allows an administrator to observe the communication protocol
data flow of a xxQS_NAMExx service daemon. The qping -dump instruction must be started
as root and on the same host where the observed daemon is running.

The output is written to stdout. The environment variable "SGE_QPING_OUTPUT_FORMAT"
can be set to hide columns, set a default column width or to set a hostname output
format. The value of the environment variable can be set to any combination of
the following specifiers separated by a space character:
.in +3
.RS
.nf
"h:X"   -> hide column X
"s:X"   -> show column X
"w:X:Y" -> set width of column X to Y
"hn:X"  -> set hostname output parameter X. 
           X values are "long" or "short"
.fi
.RE

Start qping -help to see which columns are available.
.in -3


.SS "\fB\-dump_tag tag [param]\fP"
This option has the same the same meaning as -dump, but can provide more information by
specifying the debug level and message types qping should print:
.in +3
-dump_tag ALL <debug level> 
.in +3
This option shows all possible debug messages (APP+MSG) for the debug levels, ERROR, WARNING,
INFO, DEBUG and DPRINTF. The contacted service must support this kind of debugging. 
This option is not currently implemented.
.in -3
.in -3    
.in +3
-dump_tag APP <debug level> 
.in +3
This option shows only application debug messages for the debug levels, ERROR, WARNING, INFO,
DEBUG and DPRINTF. The contacted service must support this kind of debugging.
This option is not currently implemented.
.in -3
.in -3    
.in +3
-dump_tag MSG
.in +3
This option has the same behavior as the -dump option. 
.in -3
.in -3    

.SS "\fBhost\fP"
Host where daemon is running.

.SS "\fBport\fP"
Port which daemon has bound (used xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster/xxqs_name_sxx_execd port number).

.SS "\fBname\fP"
Name of communication endpoint ("qmaster" or "execd"). A communication endpoint is a 
triplet of hostname/endpoint name/endpoint id (e.g. hostA/qmaster/1 or subhost/qstat/4).

.SS "\fBid\fP"
Id of communication endpoint ("1" for daemons)

.\"
.\"

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.nf
>qping master_host 31116 qmaster
08/24/2004 16:41:15 endpoint master_host/qmaster/1 at port 31116 is up since 365761 seconds
08/24/2004 16:41:16 endpoint master_host/qmaster/1 at port 31116 is up since 365762 seconds
08/24/2004 16:41:17 endpoint master_host/qmaster/1 at port 31116 is up since 365763 seconds
.fi

.nf
> qping -info master_host 31116 qmaster 1
08/24/2004 16:42:47:
SIRM version:             0.1
SIRM message id:          1
start time:               08/20/2004 11:05:14 (1092992714)
run time [s]:             365853
messages in read buffer:  0
messages in write buffer: 0
nr. of connected clients: 4
status:                   0
info:                     ok
.fi

.nf
> qping -info execd_host 31117 execd 1
08/24/2004 16:43:45:
SIRM version:             0.1
SIRM message id:          1
start time:               08/20/2004 11:06:13 (1092992773)
run time [s]:             365852
messages in read buffer:  0
messages in write buffer: 0
nr. of connected clients: 2
status:                   0
info:                     ok
.fi

.\"
.\"

.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M host_aliases 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
