'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qquota.1,v $ 
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QQUOTA 1 "$Date: 2007/07/19 09:04:31 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qquota \- shows current usage of xxQS_NAMExx resource quotas
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B qquota
[
.B -h wc_host|wc_hostgroup,...
] [
.B -help
] [
.B -l resource_name,...
] [
.B -u wc_user,...
] [
.B -P wc_project,...
] [
.B -pe wc_pe_name,...
] [
.B -q wc_cqueue,...
] [
.B -xml
]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I qquota
shows the current xxQS_NAMExx resource quota sets. Only resource quota sets
with a positive usage count or a static limit are printed.
.PP
Selection options allow you to filter for specific hosts, cluster queues,
projects, parallel environments (pe), resources or users.
Without any option
.I qquota
will display a list of all resource quota sets for the calling user.
.PP
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP "\fB\-h wc_host|wc_hostgroup,...\fP"
.I 
Display only resource quota sets that matches with the hosts
in the given wildcard host or hostgroup list. Find the definition
of \fBwc_host\fP and \fBwc_hostgroup\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-l resource_name,...\fP"
Display only resource quota sets being matched with the resources in the
given resource list.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-u wc_user,...\fP"
Display only resource quota sets being matched with the users in the
given wildcard user list. Find the definition
of \fBwc_user\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.\"
.IP "\fB\-P wc_project,...\fP"
Display only resource quota sets being matched with the projects in the
given wildcard project list. Find the definition
of \fBwc_project\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.\"
.IP "\fB\-pe wc_pe_name,...\fP"
Display only resource quota sets being matched with the parallel environments (pe)
in the given wildcard pe list. Find the definition
of \fBwc_pe_name\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.\"
.IP "\fB\-q wc_cqueue,...\fP"
Display only resource quota sets being matched with the queues in the
given wildcard cluster queue list. Find the definition
of \fBwc_cqueue\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.\"
.IP "\fB\-xml \fP"
This option can be used with all other options and changes the output to XML. The
schema used is referenced in the XML output. The output is printed to stdout.
.\"
.\"
.SH "OUTPUT FORMATS"
A line is printed for every resource quota with a positive usage count or a static resource.
The line consists of
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the resource quota - rule set name/rule name or number of rule in ruleset
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the limit - resource name, the number of used and available entities of that resource
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the effective resource quota set filter
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qquota
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/act_qmaster\fP
	xxQS_NAMExx master host file
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/xxqs_name_sxx_qquota\fP
	cluster qquota default options
\fI$HOME/.xxqs_name_sxx_qquota\fP	
	user qquota default options
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qalter 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M qhold 1 ,
.M qmod 1 ,
.M qstat 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.M queue_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd 8 .
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
