'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qrdel.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2007/06/15 13:46:34 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.1 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QDEL 1 "$Date: 2007/06/15 13:46:34 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qrdel \- delete xxQS_NAMExx Advance Reservations (AR)
.SH SYNTAX
.B qrdel
.B [\-f]
.B [\-help
.B [\-u wc_user_list]
.B wc_ar_list
.\"
.\" 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Qrdel
provides a means for a user/operator/manager to delete
one or more Advance Reservations (AR). A manager/operator can delete AR(s) belonging to any
user, while a regular user can only delete his or her own AR(s).
If a manager wants to delete another user's AR, the manager can specify
the AR id.A "qrdel wc_ar_name" will delete only the AR of belonging to  
that user by default. The manager is able to delete another user's AR via "-u wc_user_list". 
Jobs referring to an AR tagged for deletion will also be removed. 
Only if all jobs referring an AR are removed from the xxQS_NAMExx database 
the AR will also be removed.

.I Qrdel
deletes AR in the order in which their AR 
identifiers are presented. Find additional information concerning
\fIwc_user_list\fP and \fIwc_ar_list\fP in
.M sge_types 1 .
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP "\fB\-f\fP"
Force action for AR. The AR(s) are deleted from the list of an AR
registered at
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
even if the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
controlling the AR(s) does not respond to the delete request sent by
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.br
Users which are neither xxQS_NAMExx managers nor operators can only use the
.B \-f
option (for their own AR) if the cluster configuration entry
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-u wc_user_list\fP"
Deletes only those AR(s) which were submitted by
users specified in the list of usernames.
For managers it is possible to use \fB\qrdel -u "*" "*"\fP to delete
all AR(s) of all users. If a manager wants to delete a specific
AR of a user, he has to specify the user and the AR id. If no 
AR is specified, all AR(s) belonging to that user are deleted.
.\"
.IP "\fBwc_ar_list\fP"
A list of AR id's, which should be deleted
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qrdel
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
.ta 
\fI$xxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT/$xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL/common/sge_ar_request\fR global defaults file
\fI$HOME/.sge_ar_request\fR user private defaults file
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qrstat 1 ,
.M qrsub 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 .
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
