'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004-2007 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qrstat.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/07/19 17:12:57 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.8 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QRSTAT 1 "$Date: 2008/07/19 17:12:57 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qrstat \- show the status of xxQS_NAMExx Advance Reservations (AR)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B qrstat
.B [\-ar ar_id,...]
.B [\-help]
.B [\-u user,...]
.B [\-explain]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I qrstat
shows the current status of the available xxQS_NAMExx ARs.
The selection option \fB\-ar\fP allows you to get information about 
specific AR.
.PP
The administrator and the user may define files
which can contain any of the options described below. A cluster-wide sge_qrstat
file may be placed under
$xxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT/$xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL/common/sge_qrstat
The user private  file is searched at the location
$HOME/.sge_qrstat.
The home directory request file has the highest precedence over
the cluster global file.
Command line can be used to override the flags contained in the files.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-ar ar_id,...\fP"
Prints various information about the ARs identified by given ar_id list.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-explain\fP"
Displays the reason for the error state of an AR. Possible reasons 
are the unknown state of a host or queue instance.
.sp
The output format for the alarm reasons is one line per reason.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-u user,...\fP"
Display information only for those ARs 
created by the users from the given user list.
.sp
The string
\fB\ $user\fP
is a placeholder for the current username. An asterisk "*" can be used 
as username wildcard to request that all users' ARs be displayed. The
default value for this switch is "\fB-u $user\fP".
\"
.IP "\fB\-xml\fP"
This option can be used with all other options and changes the output to XML. The used
schemas are referenced in the XML output. The output is printed to stdout.
.br
.\"
.\"
.SH "OUTPUT FORMATS"
Depending on the presence or absence of the \fB-ar\fP option there are two 
output formats need to be differentiated.
.\"
.SS "\fBAdvance Reservation Summary (without \-ar)\fP"
Following the header line, a section for each AR
is provided. The columns contain information for
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the AR id.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the name of the AR.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the current state of the AR. One of following states 'wWrEd".
.sp 1
.nf
.ta \w'|b|  'u
w - waiting without error
W - warning (effective - waiting with error)
r - running
E - error (effective - running with error)
d - deleted 
.fi
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the start time of the AR.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the end time of the AR.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the duration of the AR.
.SS "\fBDetailed Format (with \-ar)\fP"
The output contains two columns. The first one contains all AR attributes.
The second one the corresponding value.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qrstat
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/act_qmaster\fP
	xxQS_NAMExx master host file
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/xxqs_name_sxx_qrstat\fP
	cluster qrstat default options
\fI$HOME/.xxqs_name_sxx_qrstat\fP	
	user qrstat default options
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qrsub 1 ,
.M qrdel 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
