'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  The Contents of this file are made available subject to the terms of
.\"  the Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\" 
.\"  Sun Microsystems Inc., March, 2001
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\"  =================================================
.\"  The contents of this file are subject to the Sun Industry Standards
.\"  Source License Version 1.2 (the "License"); You may not use this file
.\"  except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.\"  License at http://www.gridengine.sunsource.net/license.html
.\" 
.\"  Software provided under this License is provided on an "AS IS" basis,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
.\"  WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
.\"  MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGING.
.\"  See the License for the specific provisions governing your rights and
.\"  obligations concerning the Software.
.\" 
.\"  The Initial Developer of the Original Code is: Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  Copyright: 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" 
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qselect.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2001/07/19 16:58:13 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.3 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QSELECT 1 "$Date: 2001/07/19 16:58:13 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qselect \- select queues.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B qselect
[
.B -help
] [
.B -l resource=val,...
] [
.B -pe pe_name,...
] [
.B -q queue,...
] [
.B -U user,...
]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I qselect
prints a list of xxQS_NAMExx queue names corresponding to 
selection criteria specified in the
.I qselect
arguments described below. The output of
.I qselect
can be fed into other xxQS_NAMExx commands to apply 
actions on the selected queue sets. For example together with the
\fI\-mqattr\fP option to
.M qconf 1 ,
.I qselect
can be used to modify queue attributes on a set of queues.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-l resource\fP[\fB=value\fP],..."
Defines the resources to be granted by the queues which should be 
included in the queue list output. 
.\"
.IP "\fB\-pe pe_name,...\fP"
Includes queues into the output which are attached to at least one of the 
parallel environments enlisted in the comma separated option argument. 
.\"
.IP "\fB\-q queue,...\fP"
Directly specifies the queues to be included in the output. This option 
usually is only meaningful in conjunction with another
.I qselect
option to extract a subset of queue names from a list given by \fB\-q\fP.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-U user,...\fP"
Includes the queues to which the specified users have access in the
.I qselect 
output.
.\"
.\"
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf

=====================================================

qselect -l arch=linux
qselect -l arch=linux -U andreas,shannon
qconf -mqattr h_vmem=1GB `qselect -l arch=linux

=====================================================

.fi
The first example prints the names of those queues residing on Linux 
machines. The second command in addition restricts the output to those 
queues with access permission for the users
\fIandreas\fP and \fIshannon\fP. The third command changes the queue
attribute \fIh_vmem\fP to 1 Gigabyte on queues residing on Linux machines
(see the
.M qconf 1
manual page for details on the \fI\-mqattr\fP option and the
.M queue_conf 5
manual page on details of queue configuration entries).
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qselect
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBCOMMD_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry instead
to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBCOMMD_HOST\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the host on which the particular
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8
to be used for xxQS_NAMExx communication of the
.I qselect
client resides.
Per default the local host is used.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/     'u
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/act_qmaster\fP
	xxQS_NAMExx master host file
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M qmod 1 ,
.M qstat 1 ,
.M queue_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_commd 8 .
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
