'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: qtcsh.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2004/11/12 15:40:03 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.8 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH QTCSH 1 "$Date: 2004/11/12 15:40:03 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qtcsh \- tcsh v6.09 with transparent remote execution by use of qrsh.
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B qtcsh
[
.B tcsh options
|
.B -ABLR
]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
.I Qtcsh
is an extension to the popular
.M csh 1
derivative \fItcsh\fP. It allows the transparent remote execution commands
entered in
.I qtcsh
controlled via xxQS_NAMExx.
.I Qtcsh
can be used as interactive command interpreter as well as for the
processing of
.I tcsh
shell scripts.
.PP
When invoked,
.I qtcsh
identifies which commands are to be
run remotely and which are not. For this purpose the files
<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/qtask and ~/.qtask are processed. Each
line in these files defines a command that is intended to be run remotely
(see
.M qtask 5
for a definition of the file format). The .qtask file in the user's home
directory contains the user's remote task specification, while the file in
the common directory is maintained by the administrator and defines a
cluster-wide default behavior.
The contents of the administrator
supplied
.M qtask 5
file are completely overridden in case
there is an appropriate entry in the users
.M qtask 5
file.  This is prevented in case an exclamation mark is prefixed
to the command name in the administrators qtask file.
.sp 1
.I Qtcsh
always attempts to start the designated tasks remotely via
.M qrsh 1 .
Exceptions are
.IP "\(bu" 3n
if the user enters such commands via a relative or absolute pathname
instead of the stand-alone command name (see
.M qtask 5
for more information).
.IP "\(bu" 3n
if the environment variable JOB_ID is set and thus
.I qtcsh
assumes that execution already happens remotely within a xxQS_NAMExx job
and thus executes tasks locally. This avoids unwanted
recursions but can be overridden by the command-line option \fB\-R\fP and
the built-in command \fIqrshmode \-R\fP (see corresponding descriptions
below).
.IP "\(bu" 3n
if
.I qtcsh
cannot establish a connection of xxQS_NAMExx during start-up. This allows
to use
.I qtcsh
as login shell without the danger of being blocked when no xxQS_NAMExx
service is available.
.PP
.I Qtcsh
can operate in three different modes determining whether
.IP "\(bu" 3n
tasks are executed remotely.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
immediate or batch execution is requested.
.IP "\(bu" 3n
status output is verbose or only in case of any errors.
.PP
These modes either can be controlled by the command-line switches described
below during
.I qtcsh
invocation or within an executing
.I qtcsh
via the built-in command
.I qrshmode
as described in section \fBBUILT-IN COMMANDS\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
The options enlisted below are special to \fIqtcsh\fP. The user
is referred to the
.M tcsh 1
documentation for the explanation of further options.
.sp 1
.IP \fB\-A\fP
Switches
.I qtcsh
in verbose mode causing diagnostic 
output in case of remote execution.
.\"
.IP \fB\-B\fP
Switches remote task execution to batch mode. Tasks submitted to
xxQS_NAMExx will be queued if they cannot start immediately.
As a consequence,
.I qtcsh
may block until the queued task can be started by xxQS_NAMExx. While this
behavior probably is undesirable during an interactive session, it may be
very useful for execution of shell scripts through
.I qtcsh
as it avoids failure of the scripts due to temporarily unavailable resources
for particular tasks.
.\"
.IP \fB\-L\fP
Switches off default behavior of remote execution of 
commands. Causes all commands to be executed locally 
even if they are contained in one of the
.M qtask 5
files.
.\"
.IP \fB\-R\fP
Enforces remote execution of commands even if JOB_ID  
is set as environment variable.
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUILT-IN COMMANDS"
This section only describes additional shell builtin commands
which are not available in standard
.M tcsh 1 .
.sp 1
.IP "\fBqrshmode\fP [\fB\-ANBILR\fP]"
Without options, the current operational mode of
.I qtcsh
is displayed. The options have the following effect:
.sp 1
.nf
.ta \w'-B   'u
-A	switch to verbose output mode
-N	switch to non-verbose output mode
-B	switch to batch execution mode
-I	switch to immediate execution mode
-L	always execute commands locally
-R	execute configured commands remotely
.fi
.sp 1
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration
files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell
.I qtcsh
uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment 
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry for the
service "sge_qmaster" instead to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBJOB_ID\fP" 1.5i
If set when starting
.I qtcsh
the local operation 
mode is activated implicitly as if the \fB\-L\fP option was specified.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'~/.qtask       'u
\fI~/.qtask\fP	user qtask file.
\fI<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/common/qtask\fP
	cluster qtask file.
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M qrsh 1 ,
.M qtask 5
as well as
.M tcsh 1
under <xxqs_name_sxx_root>/3rd_party/qtcsh.
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.I Qtcsh
contains portions of
.I tcsh
which is copyrighted by The Regents of the University of California.
Therefore, the following note applies:
This product includes software developed by the University of
California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.sp 1
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
and the information provided in <xxqs_name_sxx_root>/3rd_party/qtcsh
for a statement of further rights and permissions.
