'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  The Contents of this file are made available subject to the terms of
.\"  the Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\" 
.\"  Sun Microsystems Inc., March, 2001
.\" 
.\" 
.\"  Sun Industry Standards Source License Version 1.2
.\"  =================================================
.\"  The contents of this file are subject to the Sun Industry Standards
.\"  Source License Version 1.2 (the "License"); You may not use this file
.\"  except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.\"  License at http://www.gridengine.sunsource.net/license.html
.\" 
.\"  Software provided under this License is provided on an "AS IS" basis,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
.\"  WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
.\"  MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGING.
.\"  See the License for the specific provisions governing your rights and
.\"  obligations concerning the Software.
.\" 
.\"  The Initial Developer of the Original Code is: Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  Copyright: 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" 
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: sge_intro.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:21 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.2 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAMExx_INTRO 1 "$Date: 2001/07/19 15:55:21 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.\"
.SH NAME
xxQS_NAMExx \- a facility for executing UNIX jobs on remote machines
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
xxQS_NAMExx
is a facility for executing UNIX batch jobs (shell scripts) on a pool
of cooperating workstations. Jobs are queued and executed remotely on
workstations at times when those workstations would otherwise be idle
or only lightly loaded. The work load is distributed among the
workstations in the cluster corresponding to the load situation of each
machine and the resource requirements of the jobs.
.PP
.\"
User level checkpointing programs are supported and a transparent
checkpointing mechanism is provided (see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_ckpt 1 ).
Checkpointing jobs migrate from workstation to workstation without user
intervention on load demand. In addition to batch jobs, interactive
jobs and parallel jobs can also be submitted to xxQS_NAMExx. xxQS_NAMExx also
provides a mechanism for passing job requests over to arbitrary
other queuing systems via the so called Queuing System Interface (QSI).
.PP
.\"
.SH "USER INTERFACE"
The xxQS_NAMExx
user interface consists of several programs which are described
separately.
.\"
.TP
.M qacct 1
.I qacct
extracts arbitrary accounting information from the cluster logfile.
.\"
.TP
.M qalter 1
.I qalter
changes the characteristics of already submitted jobs.
.\"
.TP
.M qconf 1
.I qconf
provides the user interface for configuring, modifying, deleting and
querying queues and the cluster configuration.
.\"
.TP
.M qdel 1
.I qdel
provides the means for a user/operator/manager to cancel jobs.
.\"
.TP
.M qhold 1
.I qhold
holds back submitted jobs from execution.
.\"
.TP
.M qhost 1
.I qhost
displays status information about xxQS_NAMExx execution hosts.
.\"
.TP
.M qlogin 1
.I qlogin
initiates a telnet or similar login session with automatic selection of a
low loaded and suitable host.
.\"
.TP
.M qmake 1
.I qmake
is a replacement for the standard Unix
.I make
facility. It extends make by
its ability to distribute independent make steps across a cluster of
suitable machines.
.TP
.M qmod 1
.I qmod
allows the owner(s) of a queue to suspend and enable all queues 
associated with his machine (all currently active processes in this queue 
are also signaled) or to suspend and enable jobs executing in the owned 
queues.
.\"
.TP
.M qmon 1
.I qmon
provides a Motif command interface to all xxQS_NAMExx
functions. The status of all or a private selection of the configured
queues is displayed on-line by changing colors at corresponding queue
icons.
.\"
.TP
.M qresub 1
.I qresub
creates new jobs by copying currently running or pending jobs.
.\"
.TP
.M qrls 1
.I qrls
releases holds from jobs previously assigned to them e.g. via
.M qhold 1
(see above).
.\"
.TP
.M qrsh 1
.I qrsh
can be used for various purposes such as providing remote execution of
interactive applications via xxQS_NAMExx comparable to the standard Unix
facility rsh, to allow for the submission of batch jobs which, upon
execution, support terminal I/O (standard/error output and standard input)
and terminal control, to provide a batch job submission client which
remains active until the job has finished or to allow for the
xxQS_NAMExx-controlled remote execution of the tasks of parallel jobs.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.M qselect 1
.I qselect
prints a list of queue names corresponding to specified selection 
criteria. The output of
.I qselect
is usually fed into other xxQS_NAMExx 
commands to apply actions on a selected set of queues. 
.\"
.TP
.M qsh 1
.I qsh
opens an interactive shell (in an
.M xterm 1 )
on a low loaded host. Any kind of
interactive jobs can be run in this shell.
.\"
.TP
.M qstat 1
.I qstat
provides a status listing of all jobs and queues associated with the
cluster.
.\"
.TP
.M qtcsh 1
.I qtcsh
is a fully compatible replacement for the widely known and used Unix
C-Shell (\fIcsh\fP) derivative \fItcsh\fP. It provides a command-shell
with the extension of transparently distributing execution of
designated applications to suitable and lightly loaded hosts via
xxQS_NAMExx.
.\"
.TP
.M qsub 1
.I qsub
is the user interface for submitting a job to xxQS_NAMExx.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.M xxqs_name_sxx_ckpt 1 ,
.M qacct 1 ,
.M qalter 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M qdel 1 ,
.M qhold 1 ,
.M qhost 1 ,
.M qlogin 1 ,
.M qmake 1 ,
.M qmod 1 ,
.M qmon 1 ,
.M qresub 1 ,
.M qrls 1 ,
.M qrsh 1 ,
.M qselect 1 ,
.M qsh 1 ,
.M qstat 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.M qtcsh 1 ,
.I xxQS_NAMExx Installation and Administration Guide,
.I xxQS_NAMExx Quick Start Guide,
.I xxQS_NAMExx User's Guide.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright: 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
