'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" $RCSfile: sgepasswd.1,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2008/12/18 16:09:50 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.4 $
.\"
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_PASSWD 1 "$Date: 2008/12/18 16:09:50 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
sgepasswd \- Modify the xxQS_NAMExx password file of xxQS_NAMExx 
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B sgepasswd
[[
.B -D domain
]
.B -d user
] 
.PP
.B sgepasswd
[
.B -D domain
] [
.B user
]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sgepasswd
modifies the xxQS_NAMExx password file 
.M sgepasswd 5 . 
.PP
This file contains a list of usernames and their windows password in 
encrypted form. 
.M sge_execd 8
and
.M sge_shepherd 8  
on hosts running Microsoft Windows as operating systems use this 
information to start jobs for a certain user. 
.PP
Each user can use the 
.I sgepasswd 
application to add a new entry for the own user account. It is also possible 
to change the stored password with 
.I sgepasswd 
as far as the user knows the old one.
.PP
The root user additionally has the permission to change the password entries 
for other user accounts. Root can also delete existing entries.
.PP
The 
.I sgepasswd 
binary is only available on non-Windows hosts.
.PP
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-D domain\fP"
Per default 
.I sgepasswd 
will add/modify the current Unix username without domain specification.
This switch can be used to add a domain specification in front of the
current user name. Consult your Microsoft Windows documentation to get
more information about domain users. 
.\"
.IP "\fB\-d user\fP"
Only root can use this parameter to delete entries from the
.M sgepasswd 5 
file.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\" 
.IP "\fBSGE_CERTFILE\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of public key file. Per default 
.I sgepasswd
will use the file $SGE_ROOT/$SGE_CELL/common/sgeCA/certs/cert.pem
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_KEYFILE\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the location of the private key file.
Default is /var/sgeCA/port${SGE_QMASTER_PORT}/${SGE_CELL}/private/key.pem
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_RANDFILE\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the location of the seed used to create encrypted
versions of user passwords. Default
is /var/sgeCA/port${SGE_QMASTER_PORT}/${SGE_CELL}/private/rand.seed
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M sgepasswd 5 
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
